The hours came and went, and though worn out with the exertions of the
past days, and with the emotions of the morning, I lay in my rooms,
unable to sleep even for a moment. I went down once or twice to Isaacs'
rooms to know whether he had returned, but he had not, nor had any one
heard from him. At last the evening shadows crept stealthily up,
darkening first one room, then another, until there was not light enough
to read by. Then I dropped my book and went out to breathe the cold air
on the verandah. Wearily the hours went by, and still there was no sign
of my friend.

Towards eleven o'clock the moon, now waning, once more rose above the
hills and shed her light across the lawn, splendid still, but with the
first tinge of melancholy that clouds her departing glory. Exhausted
nature asserted herself, and chilled to the bone I went to bed, and, at
last, to sleep.

I slept peacefully at first, but soon the events that had come over my
life began to weave themselves in wild disharmony through my restful
visions, and the events that were to come cast their lengthening shadows
before them. The world of past, present, and future thoughts, came into
my soul, distorted, without perspective, nothing to help me to discern
the good from the evil, the suffering gone and long-forgotten from the
pain in store. The triumph of discrepancy over waking reason, the
fancied victories of the sleep-dulled intellect over the outrageous
discord of the wakeful imagination. I passed a most miserable night. It
seemed rest to wake, until I was awake, and then it seemed rest to sleep
again, until my eyes were closed. At last it came, no dream this time;
Isaacs stood by my bed-side in the gray of the morning, himself grayer
than the soft neutral-tinted dawn. It was a terrible moment to me,
though I had expected it since yesterday. I felt like the condemned
criminal in France, who does not know the day or hour of his death. The
first intimation is when the executioner at daybreak enters his cell and
bids him come forth to die, sometimes in less than sixty seconds from
his waking.[2]

How gray he looked, and how infinitely tried. I rose swiftly and took
his hands, which were deadly cold, and led him to the outer room. I
could not say anything, for I did not know how such a terribly sudden
blow would affect him; he was so unlike any one else. Why is it so hard
to comfort the afflicted? Why should the most charitable duty it is ever
given us to perform be, without exception, the hardest of tasks?

I am sure most people feel as I do. It is far less painful to suffer
wounds and sickness in one's own body than to stand by and see the cold
clean knife go through skin and flesh and cartilage; it is surely easier
to suffer disease than to smooth daily and hourly the bed and pillows of
some poor tormented wretch, calling on God and man to end his misery.
There is a hidden instinct--of a low and cowardly kind, but human
nevertheless--which bids us turn away from spectacles of agony whether
harrowing or repulsive, until the good angel comes and whispers that we
must trample on such coarse impulse and do our duty. "Show pity," said
the wise old Frenchman, "do anything to alleviate distress, but avoid
actually feeling either compassion or sympathy. They can lead to no
good." That was only his way of making to himself an excuse for doing a
good action, for Larochefoucauld was a man who really possessed every
virtue that he disclaimed for himself and denied in others.

I felt much of this as I led Isaacs to the outer room, not knowing what
form his sorrow might take, but feeling in my own person a grief as
poignant, perhaps, for the moment, as his own. I had known he would
come, that was all, though I had hoped he would not, and I knew that I
must do my best to send him away a little less sorrowful than he had
come. I was not prepared for the extreme calm of voice and manner that
marked his first words, coming with measured rhythm and even cadence
from his pale lips.

"It is all over, my friend," he said.

"It has but begun," said the solemn tones of Ram Lal, the Buddhist, from
the door. He entered and approached us.

"Friend Isaacs," he continued, "I am not here to mock at your grief or
to weary your strained heartstrings with such petty condolence as
well-nigh drove Ayoub of old to impatience. But I love you, my brother,
and I have somewhat to say to you in your trouble, some advice to give
you in your distress. You are suffering greatly, past the power of
reason to alleviate, for you no longer know yourself, nor are aware what
you really think. But I will show to you three pictures of yourself that
shall rouse you to what you are, to what you were, and to what you shall
be.

"I found you, not many years ago, a very young man, most exceptionally
placed in regard to the world. You were even then rich, though not so
rich as you now are. You were beautiful and full of vigour, but you have
now upon you the glow of a higher beauty, the overflowing promise of a
more glorious life. You were happy because you thought you were, but
such happiness as you had proceeded from without rather than from
within. You were a materially thinking man. Your thoughts were of the
flesh, and your delights--harmless it is true--were in the things that
were under your eyes--wealth, power, book knowledge, and perhaps woman,
if you can call the creatures you believed in women.

"You gathered wealth in great heaps, and your precious stones in
storehouses. You laid your hand upon the diamond of the river and upon
the pearl of the sea, and they abode with you, as the light of the sun
and the moon. And you said, 'Behold it is my star, which is the lord of
the dog-heat in summer, and it is my kismet.' You also took to yourself
wives of rare qualities, having both golden and raven black hair, whose
skin was as fine silk, and their breath as the freshness of the dawning,
and their eyes as jewels. Then said you, rejoicing in your heart, that
you were happy; and so you dwelt in peace and plenty, and waxed glad.

"Therefore you accomplished your first destiny, and you drank of the cup
that was filled to overflowing. And if it had been the law of nature
that from pleasure man should derive permanent lasting peace, you had
been happy so long as you lived. But, though you have the faultless life
of the body to enjoy all things of the earth, even as other men, though
in another degree, you have within you something more. There is in your
breast a heart beating--an organ so wonderful in its sensitiveness, so
perfect in its consciousness of good, that the least throb and thrill of
pleasure that it feels is worth years and ages of mere sensual life
enjoyment. The body having tasted of all happiness whereof it is
capable, and having found that it is good, is saturated with its own
ease and enjoys less keenly. But the heart is the border-land between
body and soul. The heart can love and the body can love, but the body
can only love itself; the heart is the wellspring of the lore that goes
beyond self. Therefore your heart awoke.

"Shall I tell you of the first early stirrings of your love? Think you,
because I am gray and loveless, that I have never known youth and
gladness of heart? Ah, I know, better than you can think. It is not
sudden, really, the blossoming out of the tree of life. The small leaves
grow larger and stronger though still closely folded in the bud, until
the bright warmth of the spring makes them burst into bloom. The little
lark in the nest among the grass grows beneath the mother's wing and
idly moves, now and then, unconscious of the cloud-cleaving gift of
flight, until all at once, in the fair dawning, there wells up in his
tiny breast the mighty sense of power to rise.

"The human heart is like the budded folded leaves, and like the untaught
lark. The quiet sleep before the day of blooming is, while it lasts, a
state of happiness. But it is not comparable with the breathing joy of
the leaf that feels and sees the wonderful life around it, whispering
divine answers to the wooing breeze. The humble nest where it has first
seen light is for many days a happy home to the tender songster, soon
left behind, when the first wing-strokes waft the small body upwards to
the sky, and forgotten as the first glad trill and quaver of the
new-found voice roll out the prelude to the glorious life-long hymn of
praise. The heart of man--your heart, my dear friend--gave a great leap
from earth to sky, when first it felt the magic of the other life. The
grosser scales of material vision fell away from your inner sight on the
day when you met, and knew you had met, the woman you were to love.

"I found you again, a different man, a far happier man, though you would
hardly allow that. A sweet uncertainty of the future half-tinged your
joy with a shadow of sadness, which you had not known before: but love
sadness is only the shading and gentle pencilling in love's wondrous
picture, whereby the whole light of the painting is made clearer and
stronger. A new world opened out before you in endless vistas of untold
and undreamed bliss. You looked back at your former self, so careless
and sunny, so consciously happy in the strong sense of life and power,
and you wondered how you could have been even contented through so many
years. The good and evil deeds of your past life lost colour and
perspective, and fell back into a dull, flat background, against which
the ineffable vision of beautiful and immortal womanhood stood forth in
transcendent glory. The eternal womanly element of the great universe
beckoned you on, as it did Doctor Faustus of old. You had hitherto
accepted woman and ignored womanhood, as so many of the followers of the
prophet have always done. Henceforth there was to be a change, entire,
complete, and enduring. No doubts now, or careless scepticism; no cant
about women having no souls and no individual being; you had made a
great step to a better understanding of the world you live in. Filled
with a new life, you went on your way rejoicing and longing to do great
deeds for her who had come into your destiny. From dawn to sunset, and
from evening to dawn, one picture ever was before you leading you on.
You were ready to run any risk for a smile and a blush of pleasure, you
were willing to sacrifice anything and everything for her praise. And
when, down there among the mango-trees in the Terai, your lips first
touched hers and your arm pressed her to your side, the joy that was
yours was as the joy of the immortals."

Ram Lal paused, and Isaacs, who had been sitting by the table, stony and
dry-eyed, hid his face in his hands, clutching with his white fingers
among his bright black hair--all that seemed left to him of life, so
dead and ashy was his face. He remained thus without looking up, as the
old man continued.

"Think not, dear friend and brother, that I have come here to dwell
needlessly on your grief, to rouse again the keen agonies that have so
lately burned through and through you to the quick. I love you well, and
would but trace the past in order to paint the future. All that you felt
and knew in those short days of perfect love on earth was good and true
and noble, and shall not be forgotten hereafter. But last night closed
the second of your three destinies--as true love always must close on
earth--in bitter grief and sorrow because the one is gone before. Rather
should you rejoice, Abdul Hafiz, that she is gone in virgin whiteness,
whither ere long you shall follow and be with her till time shall chase
the crumbling world out over the broad quicksands of eternity, and
nought shall survive of all this but the pure and the constant and the
faithful to death. There is before you a third, destiny, great and
awful, but grand beyond power of telling. Body and heart have had their
full cup of happiness, have enjoyed to the full what has been set in
their way to enjoy. To the full you have enjoyed wealth and success and
the sensuality of a refined and artistic luxury; to the full, as only a
few rarely-gifted men can, you have enjoyed the purest and highest love
that earth can give. Think not that all ends here. The greatest of
destinies is but begun, and it is the destiny of the soul Two days ago
if I had told you there was something higher in you than the loving
heart, you would not have believed me; now you do. It is the ethereal
portion of the heart, that which longs to be loosed from the body and
floating upwards to rejoin its other half.

"Your love has been of the best kind that falls to the lot of man. Not a
single shadow of doubting fell between you. It has been sweet if it has
seemed short--but it has really lasted a long time, as long as some
people's lives. You are many years older than you were when it began,
for a month or two ago--or whenever it was that your heart first
awoke--you were entirely immersed in the material view of things that
belonged naturally enough to your position and mode of life. Now you
have passed the critical border-land wherein love wanders, himself not
knowing whither he shall lead his followers, whether back to the thick
green pasture and heavy-scented groves of sensual existence or forward
to free wind-swept heights of spiritual blessedness, where those who are
true until they die walk forth into truth everlasting. Yours is the
faith and the truth that abide always, yours henceforward shall be the
perfect union of souls, yours the ethereal range of the outer firmament.
Take my hand, brother, in yours, and seek with me the path to those
heights--to that pinnacle of paradise where you shall meet once more the
spirit elected to yours."

Ram Lal stood beside Isaacs, whose face was still hidden, and laid his
hand with tender gentleness on the weary head. The old man looked kindly
down as he touched the thick black hair, and then raised his eyes and
looked out through the door at the brightening landscape over which the
morning sun was shedding warmth and beauty once more.

"Brother," he continued, "come forth with me. You have suffered too much
to mix again with the world, even if you wished it. Come forth, and your
soul shall live for ever. Your grief shall be turned to joy, and the
sinking heart shall be lifted to heights untried. As now the sun
steadily rises in his unerring course, following the pale footsteps of
the fleet dawning, and fulfilling her half spoken promises a
million-fold in his goodness; as now the all-muffling heaviness of the
sad dark night is forgotten in the gladness of day--so shall your brief
time of darkness and dull distress perish and vanish swiftly at the
first glimpses of the heavenly day on which follows no creeping night
nor shadow of earthly care. I come not to bid you forget; I come to bid
you remember. Remember all that is past, treasure it in the secret
storehouse of the soul where the few flowers culled from life's abundant
thorn are laid in their fragrance and garnered up. Remember also the
future. Think that your time is short, and that the labour shall be
sweet; so that in a few quick years you shall reap a harvest of
unearthly blooming. Fear not to tread boldly in the tracks of those who
have climbed before you, and who have attained and have conquered. What
can anything earthly ever be to you? What can you ever care again for
gold, or gem, or horse, or slave? Do with those things as it may seem
good in your eyes, but leave them behind. The weight of the money-bags
is a weariness and soreness to the feet that toil to overtake eternity.
The flesh itself is weariness to the spirit, and soon leaves it to wing
its flight untrammelled and untiring. Come, I will give you of my poor
strength what shall carry your uncertain steps over the first great
difficulties, or at least over so many as you have not yet surmounted.
Be bold, aspiring, fearless, and firm of purpose. What guerdon can man
or Heaven offer, higher than eternal communion with the bright spirit
that waits and watches for your coming? With her--you said it while she
lived--was your life, your light, and your love; it is true tenfold now,
for with her is life eternal, light ethereal, and love spiritual. Come,
brother, come with me!"

Slowly Isaacs raised his head from his hands and gazed long on the old
man. And while he gazed it was as if his pale face were transparent and
the whiteness of the burning spirit, dazzling to see, came and went
quickly and came again as flashes in the northern sky. Slowly he rose to
his feet, and laying his hand in the Buddhist's, spoke at last.

"Brother, I come," he said. "Show me the way."

"Right gladly will I be thy guide, Abdul," Ram Lal gave answer. "Right
willingly will I go with thee whither thou wouldest. Never was teacher
sought by more worthy pupil; never did man embrace the pure life of the
brethren with more single heart or truer purpose. The way shall be short
that leads thee upward, the stones that are therein shall be as wings to
lift thy feet instead of stumbling-blocks for thy destruction. The
hidden forces of nature shall lend thee strength, and her secrets
wisdom; the deep sweet springs of the eternal water shall refresh thee
and the food of the angels shall be thine. Thy sorrows shall turn from
bitter into sweet, and from the stings of thy past agonies shall grow up
the golden flowers of thy future crown. Thou shalt not tire in the way,
nor crave rest by the wayside."

"Friend, tell me what I shall do that I may attain all this."

"Be faithful to her who has preceded you, and learn of us, who know it,
wherein consists true happiness. You need but little help, dear friend.
Banish only from your thoughts the human suggestion that what you love
most is lost, gone irrevocably. Rejoice, and mourn not, that she has
entered in already where all your striving is to follow. Be glad because
she looks on those sights and hears those sounds which are too bright
and strong yet for your eyes and ears. Some of these unspeakable things
you shall perceive with your perishable body; but the more perfect and
glorious remain hidden to our mortal senses, be they ever so keen and
exquisite. Believe me, you shall reach that state before I do. My poor
soul is still bound to earth by some slender bonds of pleasure and
contemptible pain, fine indeed as threads of gossamer, and soon, I
trust, to be shaken off for ever. Yet am I bound and not utterly free.
You, my brother, have been wrenched suddenly from the life of the body
to the life of the soul. In you the vile desire to live for living's
sake will soon be dead, if it is not dead already. Your soul, drawn
strongly upward to other spheres, is well nigh loosed from love of life
and fear of death. If at this moment you could lie down and die, you
would meet your end joyfully. Very subtle are the fast-vanishing links
between you and the world; very thin and impalpable the faint shadows
that mar to your vision those transcendent hues of heavenly glory you
shall so soon behold. Look forward, look upward, look onward--never once
look back, and your waiting shall not be long, nor her watching many
days. She stands before you, beckoning and praying that you tarry not.
See that you do her bidding faithfully, as being near the blessed end,
and fearful of losing even one moment in the attainment of what you
seek."

"Fear not, Ram Lal. My determination shall not fail me, nor my courage
waver, until all is reached."

The light of another world was on the beautiful brow and features as he
looked full at his future teacher. What strange powers these adept
brethren have! What marvellous magnetism over the souls of lesser
men--whereby they turn sorrow into gladness, and defeat into triumph by
mere words. I myself, bound by thought and word and deed to the lesser
life, was not unmoved by the glorious promises that flowed with glowing
eloquence from the lips of that gray old man in the early morning. They
moved toward the door. Ram Lal spoke as he turned away.

"We leave you, friend Griggs, but we will return this evening and bid
you farewell." So I was left alone. Another comforter had taken my
place; one knowing human nature better, and well versed in the learning
of the spirit. One of that small band of high priests who in all ages
and nations and religions and societies have been the mediators between
time and eternity, to cheer and comfort the broken-hearted, to rebuke
him who would lose his own soul, to speed the awakening spirit in its
heavenward flight.

As I sat in my room that night the door opened and they were with me,
standing hand in hand.

"My friend," said Isaacs, "I have come to bid you farewell. You will
never see me again. I am here once more to thank you, from the bottom of
my heart, for your friendship and kind offices, for the strength of your
arm in the hour of need, and for the gold of your words in time of
uncertainty."

"Isaacs," I said, "I know little of the journey you are undertaking, and
I cannot go with you. This I know, that you are very near to a life I
cannot hope for; and I pray God that you may speed quickly to the
desired end, that you may attain that happiness which your brave soul
and honest heart so well deserve. Once more, then, I offer you my
fullest service, if there is anything that I still can do."

"There is nothing," he answered, "though if there were I know you would
do it gladly and entirely. I have bestowed all my worldly possessions on
the one man besides yourself to whom I owe a debt of gratitude--John
Westonhaugh. Had I known you less well, I would have made you a sharer
in my forsaken wealth. Only this I beg of you. Take this gem and keep it
always for my sake. No--do not look at it in that way. Do not consider
its value. It is to recall one who will often think of you, for you have
been a great deal to me in this month."

"I would I might have been more," I said, and it was all I could say,
for my voice failed me.

"Think of me," he continued, and the bright light shone through his face
in the dusk, "think of me, not as you see me now, or as I was this
morning, bowed beneath a great sorrow, but as looking forward to a
happiness that transcends this mortal joy that I have lost, even as the
glory of things celestial transcends the glory of the terrestrial. Think
of me, not as mourning the departed day, but as watching longingly for
the first faint dawn of the day eternal. Above all, think of me not as
alone but as wedded for all ages to her who has gone before me."

Ram Lal laid his hand on my arm and looked long into my eyes.

"Farewell for the present, my chance acquaintance," he said, "and
remember that in me you have a friend. The day may come when you too
will be in dire distress, beyond the skill of mere solitude and books to
soothe. Farewell, and may all good things be with you."

Isaacs laid his two hands on my shoulders, and once more I met the
wondrous lustre of his eyes, now veiled but not darkened with the last
look of his tender friendship.

"Good-bye, my dear Griggs. You have been the instructor and the genius
of my love. Learn yourself the lessons you can teach others so well. Be
yourself what you would have made me."

One last loving look--one more pressure of the reluctant fingers, and
those two went out, hand in hand, under the clear stars, and I saw them
no more.