The "Electric Principle of Christianity" opened as follows:

"From all Eternity God, or the SUPREME SPIRIT OF LIGHT, existed, and
to all Eternity He will continue to exist. This is plainly stated in
the New Testament thus: 'God is a SPIRIT, and they that worship Him
must worship Him IN SPIRIT and in truth.'

"He is a Shape of pure Electric Radiance. Those who may be inclined
to doubt this may search the Scriptures on which they pin their
faith, and they will find that all the visions and appearances of
the Deity there chronicled were electric in character.

"As a poet forms poems, or a musician melodies, so God formed by a
Thought the Vast Central Sphere in which He dwells, and peopled it
with the pure creations of His glorious fancy. And why? Because,
being pure Light, He is also pure Love; the power or capacity of
Love implies the necessity of Loving; the necessity of loving points
to the existence of things to be loved--hence the secret of
creation. From the ever-working Intelligence of this Divine Love
proceeded the Electric Circle of the Universe, from whence are born
all worlds.

"This truth vaguely dawned upon the ancient poets of Scripture when
they wrote: 'Darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit
of God moved upon the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be
light. And there was light.'

"These words apply SOLELY to the creation or production of OUR OWN
EARTH, and in them we read nothing but a simple manifestation of
electricity, consisting in a HEATING PASSAGE OF RAYS from the
Central Circle to the planet newly propelled forth from it, which
caused that planet to produce and multiply the wonders of the
animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms which we call Nature.

"Let us now turn again to the poet-prophets of Scripture: 'And God
said, Let us make man in our image.' The word 'OUR' here implies an
instinctive idea that God was never alone. This idea is correct.
Love cannot exist in a chaos; and God by the sheer necessity of His
Being has for ever been surrounded by radiant and immortal Spirits
emanating from His own creative glory--beings in whom all beauty and
all purity are found. In the IMAGES, therefore (only the IMAGES), of
these Children of Light and of Himself, He made Man--that is, He
caused the Earth to be inhabited and DOMINATED by beings composed of
Earth's component parts, animal, vegetable, and mineral, giving them
their superiority by placing within them His 'LIKENESS' in the form
of an ELECTRIC FLAME or GERM of spiritual existence combined with
its companion working-force of WILL-POWER.

"Like all flames, this electric spark can either be fanned into a
fire or it can be allowed to escape in air--IT CAN NEVER BE
DESTROYED. It can be fostered and educated till it becomes a living
Spiritual Form of absolute beauty--an immortal creature of thought,
memory, emotion, and working intelligence. If, on the contrary, he
is neglected or forgotten, and its companion Will is drawn by the
weight of Earth to work for earthly aims alone, then it escapes and
seeks other chances of development in OTHER FORMS on OTHER PLANETS,
while the body it leaves, SUPPORTED ONLY BY PHYSICAL SUSTENANCE
DRAWN FROM THE EARTH ON WHICH IT DWELLS, becomes a mere lump of clay
ANIMATED BY MERE ANIMAL LIFE SOLELY, full of inward ignorance and
corruption and outward incapacity. Of such material are the majority
of men composed BY THEIR OWN FREE-WILL AND CHOICE, because they
habitually deaden the voice of conscience and refuse to believe in
the existence of a spiritual element within and around them.

"To resume: the Earth is one of the smallest of planets; and not
only this, but, from its position in the Universe, receives a less
amount of direct influence from the Electric Circle than other
worlds more happily situated. Were men wise enough to accept this
fact, they would foster to the utmost the germs of electric sympathy
within themselves, in order to form a direct communication, or
system of attraction, between this planet and the ever-widening
Ring, so that some spiritual benefit might accrue to them thereby.
But as the ages roll on, their chances of doing this diminish. The
time is swiftly approaching when the invincible Law of Absorption
shall extinguish Earth as easily as we blow out the flame of a
candle. True, it may be again reproduced, and again thrown out on
space; but then it will be in a new and grander form, and will
doubtless have more godlike inhabitants.

"In the meantime--during those brief cycles of centuries which are
as a breath in the workings of the Infinite, and which must yet
elapse before this world, as we know it, comes to an end--God has
taken pity on the few, very few souls dwelling here, pent up in
mortal clay, who have blindly tried to reach Him, like plants
straining up to the light, and has established a broad stream of
sympathetic electric communication with Himself, which all who care
to do so may avail themselves of.

"Here it may be asked: Why should God take pity? Because that
Supreme Shape of Light finds a portion of Himself in all pure souls
that love Him, and HE CANNOT DESPISE HIMSELF. Also because He is
capable of all the highest emotions known to man, in a far larger
and grander degree, besides possessing other sentiments and desires
unimaginable to the human mind. It is enough to say that all the
attributes that accompany perfect goodness He enjoys; therefore He
can feel compassion, tenderness, forgiveness, patience--all or any
of the emotions that produce pure, unselfish pleasure.

"Granting Him, therefore, these attributes (and it is both
blasphemous and unreasonable to DENY HIM THOSE VIRTUES WHICH
DISTINGUISH THE BEST OF MEN), it is easily understood how He, the
All-Fair Beneficent Ruler of the Central Sphere, perceiving the long
distance to which the Earth was propelled, like a ball flung too far
out, from the glory of His Electric Ring, saw also that the
creatures He had made in His image were in danger of crushing that
image completely out, and with it all remembrance of Him, in the
fatal attention they gave to their merely earthly surroundings,
lacking, as they did, and not possessing sufficient energy to seek,
electric attraction. In brief, this Earth and God's World were like
America and Europe before the Atlantic Cable was laid. Now the
messages of goodwill flash under the waves, heedless of the storms.
So also God's Cable is laid between us and His Heaven in the person
of Christ.

"For ages (always remembering that our ages are with God a moment)
the idea of WORSHIP was in the mind of man. With this idea came also
the sentiment of PROPITIATION. The untamed savage has from time
immemorial instinctively felt the necessity of looking up to a Being
greater than Himself, and also of seeking a reconciliation with that
Being for some fault or loss in himself which he is aware of, yet
cannot explain. This double instinct--worship and propitiation--is
the key-note of all the creeds of the world, and may be called God's
first thought of the cable to be hereafter laid--a lightning-thought
which He instilled into the human race to prepare it, as one might
test a telegraph-wire from house to house, before stretching it
across a continent.

"All religions, as known to us, are mere types of Christianity. It
is a notable fact that some of the oldest and most learned races in
the world, such as the Armenians and Chaldeans, were the first to be
convinced of the truth of Christ's visitation. Buddhism, of which
there are so many million followers, is itself a type of Christ's
teaching; only it lacks the supernatural element. Buddha died a
hermit at the age of eighty, as any wise and ascetic man might do
to-day. The death and resurrection of Christ were widely different.
Anyone can be a Buddha again; anyone can NOT be a Christ. That there
are stated to be more followers of Buddhism than of Christianity is
no proof of any efficacy in the former or lack of power in the
latter. Buddhists help to swell that very large class of persons who
prefer a flattering picture to a plain original; or who, sheep-like
by nature, finding themselves all together in one meadow, are too
lazy, as well as too indifferent, to seek pastures fresher and
fairer.

"Through the divine influence of an Electric Thought, then, the
world unconsciously grew to expect SOMETHING--they knew not what.
The old creeds of the world, like sunflowers, turned towards that
unknown Sun; the poets, prophets, seers, all spoke of some
approaching consolation and glory; and to this day the fated Jews
expect it, unwilling to receive as their Messiah the Divine Martyr
they slew, though their own Scriptures testify to His identity.

"Christ came, born of a Virgin; that is, a radiant angel from God's
Sphere was in the first place sent down to Earth to wear the form of
Mary of Bethlehem, in Judea. Within that vessel of absolute purity
God placed an Emanation of His own radiance--no germ or small flame
such as is given to us in our bodies to cultivate and foster, but a
complete immortal Spirit, a portion of God Himself, wise, sinless,
and strong. This Spirit, pent up in clay, was born as a helpless
babe, grew up as man--as man taught, comforted, was slain and
buried; but as pure Spirit rose again and returned in peace to
Heaven, His mission done.

"It was necessary, in order to establish what has been called an
electric communication between God's Sphere and this Earth, that an
actual immortal, untainted Spirit in the person of Christ should
walk this world, sharing with men sufferings, difficulties, danger,
and death. Why? In order that we might first completely confide in
and trust Him, afterwards realizing His spiritual strength and glory
by His resurrection. And here may be noted the main difference
between the Electric Theory of Christianity and other theories.
CHRIST DID NOT DIE BECAUSE GOD NEEDED A SACRIFICE. The idea of
sacrifice is a relic of heathen barbarism; God is too infinitely
loving to desire the sacrifice of the smallest flower. He is too
patient to be ever wrathful; and barbaric ignorance confronts us
again in the notion that He should need to be appeased. And the
fancy that He should desire Himself or part of Himself to become a
sacrifice to Himself has arisen out of the absurd and conflicting
opinions of erring humanity, wherein right and wrong are so jumbled
together that it is difficult to distinguish one from the other.
Christ's death was not a sacrifice; it was simply a means of
confidence and communion with the Creator. A sinless Spirit suffered
to show us how to suffer; lived on earth to show us how to live;
prayed to show us how to pray; died to show us how to die; rose
again to impress strongly upon us that there was in truth a life
beyond this one, for which He strove to prepare our souls. Finally,
by His re-ascension into Heaven He established that much-needed
electric communication between us and the Central Sphere.

"It can be proved from the statements of the New Testament that in
Christ was an Embodied Electric Spirit. From first to last His
career was attended by ELECTRIC PHENOMENA, of which eight examples
are here quoted; and earnest students of the matter can find many
others if they choose to examine for themselves.

"1. The appearance of the Star and the Vision of Angels on the night
of His birth. The Chaldeans saw His 'star in the east,' and they
came to worship Him. The Chaldeans were always a learned people, and
electricity was an advanced science with them. They at once
recognized the star to be no new planet, but simply a star-shaped
flame flitting through space. They knew what this meant. Observe,
too, that they had no doubts upon the point; they came 'to worship
him,' and provided themselves with gifts to offer to this radiant
Guest, the offspring of pure Light. The vision of the angels
appearing to the shepherds was simply a joyous band of the Singing
Children of the Electric Ring, who out of pure interest and pleasure
floated in sight of Earth, drawn thither partly by the already
strong attractive influence of the Radiance that was imprisoned
there in the form of the Babe of Bethlehem.

"2. When Christ was baptized by John the Baptist, 'THE HEAVENS
OPENED.'

"3. The sympathetic influence of Christ was so powerful that when He
selected His disciples, He had but to speak to them, and at the
sound of His voice, though they were engaged in other business,
'THEY LEFT ALL AND FOLLOWED HIM."

"4. Christ's body was charged with electricity. Thus He was easily
able to heal sick and diseased persons by a touch or a look. The
woman who caught at His garment in the crowd was cured of her long-
standing ailment; and we see that Christ was aware of His own
electric force by the words He used on that occasion: 'WHO TOUCHED
ME? FOR I FEEL THAT SOME VIRTUE IS GONE OUT OF ME'--which is the
exact feeling that a physical electrician experiences at this day
after employing his powers on a subject. The raising of Jairus's
daughter, of the widow's son at Nain, and of Lazarus, were all
accomplished by the same means.

"5. The walking on the sea was a purely electric effort, AND CAN BE
ACCOMPLISHED NOW BY ANYONE who has cultivated sufficient inner
force. The sea being full of electric particles will support anybody
sufficiently and similarly charged--the two currents combining to
procure the necessary equilibrium. Peter, who was able to walk a
little way, lost his power directly his will became vanquished by
fear--because the sentiment of fear disperses electricity, and being
purely HUMAN emotion, does away with spiritual strength for the
time.

"6. The Death of Christ was attended by electric manifestations--by
the darkness over the land during the Crucifixion; the tearing of
the temple veil in twain; and the earthquake which finally ensued.

"7. The Resurrection was a most powerful display of electric force.
It will be remembered that the angel who was found sitting at the
entrance of the empty sepulchre 'had a countenance like LIGHTNING,'
i.e., like electric flame. It must also be called to mind how the
risen Christ addressed Mary Magdalene: 'TOUCH ME NOT, for I am but
newly risen!' Why should she not have touched Him? Simply because
His strength then was the strength of concentrated in-rushing
currents of electricity; and to touch him at that moment would have
been for Magdalene instant death by lightning. This effect of
embodied electric force has been shadowed forth in the Greek legends
of Apollo, whose glory consumed at a breath the mortal who dared to
look upon him.

"8. The descent of the Holy Ghost, by which term is meant an ever-
flowing current of the inspired working Intelligence of the Creator,
was purely electric in character: 'Suddenly there came a sound from
Heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house
where they were sitting. And there appeared unto them CLOVEN TONGUES
LIKE AS OF FIRE, and sat upon each of them.' It may here be noted
that the natural electric flame is DUAL or 'cloven' in shape.

"Let us now take the Creed as accepted to-day by the Christian
Church, and see how thoroughly it harmonizes with the discoveries of
spiritual electricity. 'I believe in one God the Father Almighty,
Maker of Heaven and Earth, and of all things VISIBLE AND INVISIBLE.'
This is a brief and simple description of the Creator as He exists--
a Supreme Centre of Light, out of whom MUST spring all life, all
love, all wisdom.

"'And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only begotten Son of God, born
of the Father before all ages.' This means that the only absolute
Emanation of His own PERSONAL Radiance that ever wore such mean garb
as our clay was found in Christ--who, as part of God, certainly
existed 'BEFORE ALL AGES.' For as the Creed itself says, He was 'God
of God, LIGHT OF LIGHT. Then we go on through the circumstances of
Christ's birth, life, death, and resurrection, and our profession of
faith brings us to 'I believe in the Holy Ghost, the Lord and Giver
of Life, who proceedeth from the Father and the Son,' etc. This, as
already stated, means that we believe that since Christ ascended
into Heaven, our electric communication with the Creator has been
established, and an ever-flowing current of divine inspiration is
turned beneficially in the direction of our Earth, 'proceeding from
the Father and the Son.' We admit in the Creed that this inspiration
manifested itself before Christ came and 'SPAKE BY THE PROPHETS;'
but, as before stated, this only happened at rare and difficult
intervals, while now Christ Himself speaks through those who most
strongly adhere to His teachings.

"It may here be mentioned that few seem to grasp the fact of the
SPECIAL MESSAGE TO WOMEN intended to be conveyed in the person of
the Virgin Mary. She was actually one of the radiant Spirits of the
Central Sphere, imprisoned by God's will in woman's form. After the
birth of Christ, she was still kept on earth, to follow His career
to the end. There was a secret understanding between Himself and
her. As for instance, when she found Him among the doctors of the
law, she for one moment suffered her humanity to get the better of
her in anxious inquiries; and His reply, 'Why sought ye Me? Wist ye
not that I must be about My Father's business?' was a sort of
reminder to her, which she at once accepted. Again, at the marriage
feast in Cana of Galilee, when Christ turned the water into wine, He
said to His mother, 'WOMAN, what have I to do with thee?' which
meant simply: What have I to do with thee as WOMAN merely?--which
was another reminder to her of her spiritual origin, causing her at
once to address the servants who stood by as follows: 'Whatsoever He
saith unto you, do it.' And why, it may be asked, if Mary was really
an imprisoned immortal Spirit, sinless and joyous, should she be
forced to suffer all the weaknesses, sorrows, and anxieties of any
ordinary woman and mother? SIMPLY AS AN EXAMPLE TO WOMEN who are the
mothers of the human race; and who, being thus laid under a heavy
responsibility, need sympathetic guidance. Mary's life teaches women
that the virtues they need are--obedience, purity, meekness,
patience, long-suffering, modesty, self-denial, and endurance. She
loved to hold a secondary position; she placed herself in willing
subjection to Joseph--a man of austere and simple life, advanced in
years, and weighted with the cares of a family by a previous
marriage--who wedded her by AN INFLUENCE WHICH COMPELLED HIM to
become her protector in the eyes of the world. Out of these facts,
simple as they are, can be drawn the secret of happiness for women--
a secret and a lesson that, if learned by heart, would bring them
and those they love out of storm and bewilderment into peace and
safety.

"FOR THOSE WHO HAVE ONCE BECOME AWARE OF THE EXISTENCE OF THE
CENTRAL SPHERE AND OF THE ELECTRIC RING SURROUNDING IT, AND WHO ARE
ABLE TO REALISE TO THE FULL THE GIGANTIC AS WELL AS MINUTE WORK
PERFORMED BY THE ELECTRIC WAVES AROUND US AND WITHIN US, there can
no longer be any doubt as to all the facts of Christianity, as none
of them, VIEWED BY THE ELECTRIC THEORY, are otherwise than in
accordance with the Creator's love and sympathy with even the
smallest portion of His creation.

"Why then, if Christianity be a Divine Truth, are not all people
Christians? As well ask, if music and poetry are good things, why
all men are not poets and musicians. Art seeks art; in like manner
God seeks God--that is, He seeks portions of His own essence among
His creatures. Christ Himself said, 'Many are called, but few are
chosen;' and it stands to reason that very few souls will succeed in
becoming pure enough to enter the Central Sphere without hindrance.
Many, on leaving Earth, will be detained in the Purgatory of Air,
where thousands of spirits work for ages, watching over others,
helping and warning others, and in this unselfish labour succeed in
raising themselves, little by little, higher and ever higher, till
they at last reach the longed-for goal. It must also be remembered
that not only from Earth, but from ALL WORLDS, released souls seek
to attain final happiness in the Central Sphere where God is; so
that, however great the number of those that are permitted to
proceed thither from this little planet, they can only form, as it
were, one drop in a mighty ocean.

"It has been asked whether the Electric Theory of Christianity
includes the doctrine of Hell, or a place of perpetual punishment.
Eternal Punishment is merely a form of speech for what is really
Eternal Retrogression. For as there is a Forward, so there must be a
Backward. The electric germ of the Soul--delicate, fiery, and
imperishable as it is--can be forced by its companion Will to take
refuge in a lower form of material existence, dependent on the body
it first inhabits. For instance, a man who is obstinate in pursuing
ACTIVE EVIL can so retrograde the progress of any spiritual life
within him, that it shall lack the power to escape, as it might do,
from merely lymphatic and listless temperaments, to seek some other
chance of development, but shall sink into the form of quadrupeds,
birds, and other creatures dominated by purely physical needs. But
there is one thing it can never escape from--MEMORY. And in that
faculty is constituted Hell. So that if a man, by choice, forces his
soul DOWNWARD to inhabit hereafter the bodies of dogs, horses, and
other like animals, he should know that he does so at the cost of
everything except Remembrance. Eternal Retrogression means that the
hopelessly tainted electric germ recoils further and further from
the Pure Centre whence it sprang, ALWAYS BEARING WITHIN ITSELF the
knowledge of WHAT IT WAS ONCE and WHAT IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN. There is
a pathetic meaning in the eyes of a dog or a seal; in the
melancholy, patient gaze of the oxen toiling at the plough; there is
an unuttered warning in the silent faces of flowers; there is more
tenderness of regret in the voice of the nightingale than love; and
in the wild upward soaring of the lark, with its throat full of
passionate, shouting prayer, there is shadowed forth the yearning
hope that dies away in despair as the bird sinks to earth again, his
instincts not half satisfied. There is no greater torture than to be
compelled to remember, in suffering, joys and glorious opportunities
gone for ever.

"Regarding the Electric Theory of Religion, it is curious to observe
how the truth of it has again and again been dimly shadowed forth in
the prophecies of Art, Science, and Poesy. The old painters who
depicted a halo of light round the head of their Virgins and Saints
did so out of a correct impulse which they did not hesitate to obey.
[Footnote: An impulse which led them vaguely to foresee, though, not
to explain, the electric principle of spiritual life.] The
astronomers who, after years of profound study, have been enabled to
measure the flames of the burning sun, and to find out that these
are from two to four thousand miles high, are nearly arrived at the
conclusion that it is a world in a state of conflagration, in which
they will be perfectly right. Those who hold that this Earth of ours
was once self-luminous are also right; for it was indeed so when
first projected from the Electric Ring. The compilers or inventors
of the 'Arabian Nights' also hit upon a truth when they described
human beings as forced through evil influences to take the forms of
lower animals--a truth just explained in the Law of Retrogression.
All art, all prophecy, all poesy, should therefore be accepted
eagerly and studied earnestly, for in them we find ELECTRIC
INSPIRATION out of which we are able to draw lessons for our
guidance hereafter. The great point that scientists and artists have
hitherto failed to discover, is the existence of the Central Sphere
and its Surrounding Electric Circle. Once realize these two great
facts, and all the wonders and mysteries of the Universe are
perfectly easy of comprehension.

"In conclusion, I offer no opinion as to which is Christ's Church,
or the Fountain-head of spirituality in the world. In all Churches
errors have intruded through unworthy and hypocritical members. In a
crowded congregation of worshippers there may perhaps be only one or
two who are free from self-interest and personal vanity. In
Sectarianism, for instance, there is no shred of Christianity.
Lovers of God and followers of Christ must, in the first place, have
perfect Unity; and the bond uniting them must be an electric one of
love and faith. No true Christian should be able to hate, despise,
or envy the other. Were I called upon to select among the churches,
I should choose that which has most electricity working within it,
and which is able to believe in a positive electrical communication
between Christ and herself taking place daily on her altars--a
Church which holds, as it were, the other end of the telegraphic ray
between Earth and the Central Sphere, and which is, therefore, able
to exist among the storms of modern opinions, affording refuge and
consolation to the few determined travellers who are bound onward
and upward. I shall not name the Church I mean, because it is the
duty of everyone to examine and find it out for himself or herself.
And even though this Church instinctively works in the right
direction, it is full of errors introduced by ignorant and unworthy
members--errors which must be carefully examined and cast aside by
degrees. But, as I said before, it is the only Church which has
Principles of Electricity within it, and is therefore destined to
live, because electricity is life.

"Now I beseech the reader of this manuscript to which I, Heliobas,
append my hand and seal, to remember and realize earnestly the
following invincible facts: first that God and His Christ EXIST;
secondly, that while the little paltry affairs of our temporal state
are being built up as crazily as a child's house of cards, the huge
Central Sphere revolves, and the Electric Ring, strong and
indestructible, is ever at its work of production and re-absorption;
thirdly, that every thought and word of EVERY HABITANT ON EVERY
PLANET is reflected in lightning language before the Creator's eyes
as easily as we receive telegrams; fourthly, that this world is THE
ONLY SPOT IN THE UNIVERSE where His existence is actually questioned
and doubted. And the general spread of modern positivism,
materialism and atheism is one of the most terrific and meaning
signs of the times. The work of separating the wheat from the chaff
is beginning. Those who love and believe in God and Spiritual Beauty
are about to be placed on one side; the millions who worship Self
are drawing together in vast opposing ranks on the other; and the
moment approaches which is prophesied to be 'as the lightning that
lighteneth out of the one part under heaven, and shineth even to the
other part.' In other words, the fiery whirlpool of the Ring is
nearly ready to absorb our planet in its vortex; and out of all who
dwell upon its surface, how many shall reach the glorious Central
World of God? Of two men working in the same field, shall it not be
as Christ foretold--'the one shall be taken, and the other left'?

"Friend, or Pupil, Reader! Whoever thou art, take heed and foster
thine own soul! For know that nothing can hinder the Immortal Germ
within us from taking the form imposed upon it by our WILLS. Through
Love and Faith, it can become an Angel, and perform wonders even
while in its habitation of clay; through indifference and apathy, it
can desert us altogether and for ever; through mockery and
blasphemous disbelief, it can sink into even a lower form than that
of snake or toad. In our own unfettered hand lies our eternal
destiny. Wonderful and terrible responsibility! Who shall dare to
say we have no need of prayer?"

This document was signed "Casimir Heliobas," and bore a seal on
which the impression seemed to consist of two Arabic or Sanskrit
words, which I could not understand. I put it carefully away with
its companion MS. under lock and key, and while I was yet pausing
earnestly on its contents, Zara came into my room. She had finished
her task in the studio, she said, and she now proposed a drive in
the Bois as an agreeable way of passing the rest of the afternoon.

"I want to be as long as possible in your company," she added, with
a caressing sweetness in her manner; "for now your friends have come
to Paris, I expect you will soon be leaving us, so I must have as
much of you as I can."

My heart sank at the thought of parting from her, and I looked
wistfully at her lovely face. Leo had followed her in from the
studio, and seemed still very melancholy.

"We shall always be good friends, Zara dearest," I said, "shall we
not? Close, fond friends, like sisters?"

"Sisters are not always fond of each other," remarked Zara, half
gaily. "And you know 'there is a friend that sticketh closer than a
brother'!"

"And what friend is that in YOUR case?" I asked, half jestingly,
half curiously.

"Death!" she replied with a strange smile, in which there was both
pathos and triumph.

I started at her unexpected reply, and a kind of foreboding chilled
my blood. I endeavoured, however, to speak cheerfully as I said:

"Why, of course, death sticks more closely to us than any friend or
relative. But you look fitter to receive the embraces of life than
of death, Zara."

"They are both one and the same thing," she answered; "or rather,
the one leads to the other. But do not let us begin to philosophize.
Put on your things and come. The carriage is waiting."

I readily obeyed her, and we enjoyed an exhilarating drive together.
The rest of the day passed with us all very pleasantly and our
conversation had principally to do with the progress of art and
literature in many lands, and maintained itself equably on the level
of mundane affairs. Among other things, we spoke of the Spanish
violinist Sarasate, and I amused Heliobas by quoting to him some of
the criticisms of the London daily papers on this great artist, such
as, "He plays pieces which, though adapted to show his wonderful
skill, are the veriest clap-trap;" "He lacks breadth and colour;" "A
true type of the artist virtuoso," etc., etc.

"Half these people do not know in the least what they mean by
'breadth and colour' or 'virtuosity,'" said Heliobas, with a smile.
"They think emotion, passion, all true sentiment combined with
extraordinary TECHNIQUE, must be 'clap-trap.' Now the Continent of
Europe acknowledges Pablo de Sarasate as the first violinist living,
and London would not be London unless it could thrust an obtuse
opposing opinion in the face of the Continent. England is the last
country in the world to accept anything new. Its people are tired
and blase; like highly trained circus-horses, they want to trot or
gallop always in the old grooves. It will always be so. Sarasate is
like a brilliant meteor streaming across their narrow bit of the
heaven of music; they stare, gape, and think it is an unnatural
phenomenon--a 'virtuosity' in the way of meteors, which they are
afraid to accept lest it set them on fire. What would you? The
meteor shines and burns; it is always a meteor!"

So, talking lightly, and gliding from subject to subject, the hours
wore away, and we at last separated for the night.

I shall always be glad to remember how tenderly Zara kissed me and
wished me good repose; and I recall now, with mingled pain, wonder,
and gratitude, how perfectly calm and contented I felt as, after my
prayers, I sank to sleep, unwarned, and therefore happily
unconscious, of what awaited me on the morrow.