Marzio, in ignorance of all that was happening at the church, continued
to work in the solitude of his studio, and the current of his thoughts
flowed on in the same channel. He tried to force his attention upon the
details of the design he meditated against his brother's life, and for
some time he succeeded. But another influence had begun to work upon his
brain, since the moment when he had been frightened by the sound behind
him while he was examining the hole beneath the strong box. He would not
own to himself that such a senseless fear could have produced a
permanent impression on him, and yet he felt disturbed and unsettled,
unaccountably discomposed, and altogether uncomfortable. He could not
help looking round from time to time at the door, and more than once his
eyes rested for several seconds upon the safe, while a slight shiver ran
through his body and seemed to chill his fingers.

But he worked on in spite of all this. The habit of the chisel was not
to be destroyed by the fancied scare of a moment, and though his eyes
wandered now and then, they came back to the silver statue as keen as
ever. A little touch with the steel at one point, a little burnishing at
another, the accentuation of a line, the deepening of a shadow--he
studied every detail with a minute and scrupulous care which betrayed
his love for the work he was doing.

And yet the uneasiness grew upon him. He felt somehow as though Paolo
were present in the room with him, watching him over his shoulder,
suggesting improvements to be made, in that voice of his which now rang
distinctly in the artist's ear. His imagination worked morbidly, and he
thought of Paolo standing beside him, ordering him to do this or that
against his will, until he began to doubt his own judgment in regard to
what he was doing. He wondered whether he should feel the same thing
when Paolo was dead. Again he looked behind him, and the idea that he
was not alone gained force. Nevertheless the room was bright, brighter
indeed in the afternoon than it ever was in the morning, for the window
was towards the south, and though the first rays of the sun reached it
at about eleven in the morning, the buildings afterwards darkened it
again until the sun was in the west. Moreover to-day, the weather had
been changeable, and it had rained a little about noon. Now the air was
again clear, and the workshop was lit up so that the light penetrated
even to the ancient cobwebs in the corners, and touched the wax models
and casts on the shelves, and gilded the old wood of the door opposite
with rich brown gold. Marzio had a curtain of dusty grey linen which he
drew across the lower part of the window to keep the sunshine off his
work.

He was impatient with himself, and annoyed by the persistency of the
impression that Paolo was in some way present in the place. As though to
escape from it by braving it he set himself resolutely to consider the
expediency of destroying his brother. The first quick impulse in the
morning had developed to a purpose in the afternoon. He had constructed
the probable occurrences out of the materials of his imagination, and
had done it so vividly as to frighten himself. The fright had in some
measure cooled his intention, and had been now replaced by a new element
in his thoughts, by the apprehension for the future if the deed were
accomplished. He began to speculate upon what would happen afterwards,
wondering whether by any means the murder could be discovered, and if in
that case it could ever be traced to him.

At the first faint suggestion that such a thing as he was devising could
possibly have another issue than he had supposed, Marzio felt a cold
sensation in his heart, and his thoughts took a different direction. It
was all simple enough. To get Paolo into the workshop alone--a
blow--the concealment of the dead body until night--then the short three
hundred yards with the hand-cart--it seemed very practicable. Yes, but
if by any chance he should meet a policeman under those low trees in the
Piazza de' Branca, what would happen? A man with a hand-cart, and with
something shapeless upon the hand-cart, in the dark, hurrying towards
the river--such a man would excite the suspicions of a policeman. Marzio
might be stopped and asked what he was taking away. He would
answer--what would he answer in such a case? The hand-cart would be
examined and found to contain a dead priest. Besides, he reflected that
the wheels would make a terrible clatter in the silent streets at night.
Of course he might go out and walk down to the river first and see if
there was anybody in the way, but even then he could not be sure of
finding no one when he returned with his burden.

But there was the cellar, after all. He could go down in the night and
bury his brother's body there. No one ever went down, not even he
himself. Who would suspect the place? It would be a ghastly job, the
chiseller thought. He fancied how it would be in the cold, damp vault
with a lantern--the white face of the murdered man. No, he shrank from
thinking of it. It was too horrible to be thought of until it should be
absolutely necessary. But the place was a good one.

And then when Paolo was buried deep under the damp stones, who would be
the first to ask for him? For two or three days no one would be much
surprised if he did not come to the house. Marzio would say that he had
met him in the street, and that Paolo had excused himself for not
coming, on the ground of extreme pressure of work. But the Cardinal,
whom he served as secretary, would ask for the missing man. He would be
the first. The Cardinal would be told that Paolo had not slept at home,
in his lodging high up in the old palace, and he would send at once to
Marzio's house to know where his secretary was. Well, he might send,
Marzio would answer that he did not know, and the matter would end
there.

It would be hard to sit calmly at the bench all day with Gianbattista at
his side. He would probably look very often at the iron-bound box.
Gianbattista would notice that, and in time he would grow curious, and
perhaps explore the cellar. It would be a miserable ending to such a
drama to betray himself by his own weakness after it was all done, and
Paolo was gone for ever--a termination unworthy of Marzio, the
strong-minded freethinker. To kill a priest, and then be as nervous and
conscious as a boy in a scrape! The chiseller tried to laugh aloud in
his old way, but the effort was ineffectual, and ended in a painful
twisting of the lips, accompanied by a glance at the corner. It would
not do; he was weak, and was forced to submit to the humiliation of
acknowledging the fact to himself. With a bitter scorn of his
incapacity, he began to wonder whether he could ever get so far as to
kill Paolo in the first instance. He foresaw that if he did kill him, he
could never get rid of him afterwards.

Where do people go when they die? The question rose suddenly in the mind
of the unbeliever, and seemed to demand an answer. He had answered often
enough over a pint of wine at the inn, with Gaspare Carnesecchi the
lawyer and the rest of his friends. Nowhere. That was the answer, clear
enough. When a man dies he goes to the ground, as a slaughtered ox to
the butcher's stall, or a dead horse to the knacker's. That is the end
of him, and it is of no use asking any more questions. You might as well
ask what becomes of the pins that are lost by myriads of millions, to
the weight of many tons in a year. You might as well inquire what
becomes of anything that is old, or worn out, or broken. A man is like
anything else, an agglomeration of matter, capable of a few more tricks
than a monkey, and capable of a few less than a priest. He dies, and is
swallowed up by the earth and gives no more trouble. These were the
answers Marzio was accustomed to give to the question, "Where do people
go to when they die?" Hitherto they had satisfied him, as they appear
to satisfy a very small minority of idiots.

But what would became of Paolo when Marzio had killed him? Well, in time
his body would become earth, that was all. There was something else,
however. Marzio was conscious to certainty that Paolo would in some way
or other be at his elbow ever afterwards, just as he seemed to feel his
presence this afternoon in the workshop. What sort of presence would it
be? Marzio could not tell, but he knew he should feel it. It did not
matter whether it were real to others or not, it would be too real to
him. He could never get rid of the sensation; it would haunt him and
oppress him for the rest of his life, and he should have no peace.

How could it, if it were not a real thing? Even the priests said that
the spirits of dead men did not come back to earth; how much more
impossible must it be in Marzio's view, since he denied that man had a
soul. It would then only be the effect of his imagination recalling
constantly the past deed, and a thing which only existed in imagination
did not exist at all. If it did not exist, it could not be feared by a
sensible man. Consequently there was nothing to fear.

The conclusion contradicted the given facts from which he had argued,
and the chiseller was puzzled. For the first time his method of
reasoning did not satisfy him, and he tried to find out the cause. Was
it, he asked to himself, because there lingered in his mind some early
tradition of the wickedness of doing murder? Since there was no soul,
there was no absolute right and wrong, and everything must be decided by
the standard of expediency. It was a mistake to allow people to murder
each other openly, of course, because people of less intellectual
capacity would take upon themselves to judge such cases in their own
way. But provided that public morality, the darling of the real
freethinker, were not scandalised, there would be no inherent wrong in
doing away with Paolo. On the contrary, his death would be a benefit to
the community at large, and an advantage to Marzio in particular. Not a
pecuniary advantage either, for in Marzio's strange system there would
have been an immorality in murdering Paolo for his money if he had ever
had any, though it seemed right enough to kill him for an idea. That is,
to a great extent, the code of those persons who believe in nothing but
what they call great ideas. The individuals who murdered the Czar would
doubtless have scrupled to rob a gentleman in the street of ten francs.
The same reasoning developed itself in Marzio's brain. If his brothel
had been rich, it would have been a crime to murder him for his wealth.
It was no crime to murder him for an idea. Marzio said to himself that
to get rid of Paolo would be to emancipate himself and his family from
the rule and interference of a priest, and that such a proceeding was
only the illustration on a small scale of what he desired for his
country; consequently it was just, and therefore it ought to be done.

Unfortunately for his logic, the continuity of his deductions was
blocked by a consideration which he had not anticipated. That
consideration could only be described as fear for the future, and it had
been forcibly thrust upon him by the fright he had received while he was
examining the hole in the floor. In order to neutralise it, Marzio had
tried the experiment of braving what he considered to be a momentary
terror by obstinately studying the details of the plan he intended to
execute. To his surprise he found that he returned to the same
conclusion as before. He came back to that unaccountable fear of the
future as surely as a body thrown upwards falls again to the earth. He
went over it all in his mind again, twice, three times, twenty times. As
often as he reached the stage at which he imagined Paolo dead, hidden,
and buried in a cellar, the same shiver passed through him as he glanced
involuntarily behind him. Why? What power could a dead body possibly
exercise over a living man in the full possession of his senses?

Here was something which Marzio could not understand, but of which he
was made aware by his own feelings. The difficulty only increased in
magnitude as he faced it, considered it, and tried to view it from all
its horrible aspects. But he could not overcome it. He might laugh at
the existence of the soul and jest about the future state after death;
he could not escape from the future in this life if he did the deed he
contemplated. He should see the dead man's face by day and night as long
as he lived.

This forced conclusion was in logical accordance with his original
nature and developed character, for it was the result of that
economical, cautious disposition which foresees the consequences of
action and guides itself accordingly. Even in the moment when he had
nearly killed Paolo that morning he had not been free from this
tendency. In the instant when he had raised the tool to strike he had
thought of the means of disposing of the body and of hindering
suspicion. The panorama of coming circumstances had presented itself to
his mind with the rapidity of a flash of lightning, but in that
infinitesimal duration of time Paolo had turned round, and the
opportunity was gone. His mind had worked quickly, but it had not gone
to the end of its reasoning. Now in the solitude of his studio he had
found leisure to follow out the results to the last link of the chain.
He saw clearly that even if he eluded discovery after the crime, he
could never escape from the horror of his dead brother's presence.

He laid the silver figure of the Christ straight before him upon the
leathern pad, and looked intently at it, while his hands played idly
with the tools upon the table. His deep-set, heavy eyes gazed fixedly at
the wonderful face, with an expression which had not yet been there.
There was no longer any smile upon his thin lips, and his dark emaciated
features were restful and quiet, almost solemn in their repose.

"I am glad I did not do it," he said aloud after some minutes.

Still he gazed at his work, and the impression stole over him that but
for a slight thing he might yet have killed his brother. If he had left
the figure more securely propped upon the pad, it could not have slipped
upon the bench; it could not have made that small distinct sound just as
he was examining the place which was to have been his brother's grave;
he would not have been suddenly frightened; he would not have gone over
the matter in his mind as he had done, from the point of view of a
future fear; he would have waited anxiously for another opportunity, and
when it presented itself he would have struck the blow, and Paolo would
have been dead, if not to-day, to-morrow. There would have been a search
which might or might not have resulted in the discovery of the body.
Then there would have been, the heartrending grief of his wife, of
Lucia, and the black suspicious looks of Gianbattista. The young man had
heard him express a wish that Paolo might disappear. His home would have
been a hell, instead of being emancipated from tyranny as he had at
first imagined. Discovery and conviction would have come at last, the
galleys for life for himself, dishonour and contempt for his family.

He remembered Paolo's words as he stood contemplating the crucifix just
before that moment which had nearly been his last. _Qui propter nos
homines et propter nostram salutem_--"Who for us men and for our
salvation came down from Heaven." In a strange revulsion of feeling
Marzio applied the words to himself, with an odd simplicity that was at
once pathetic and startling.

"If Christ had not died," he said to himself, "I should not have made
this crucifix. If I had not made it, it would not have frightened me. I
should have killed my brother. It has saved me. 'For us men and for our
salvation'--those are the words--for my salvation, it is very strange.
Poor Paolo! If he knew to what he owed his life he would be pleased. Who
can believe such things? Who would have believed this if I had told it?
And yet it is true."

For some minutes still he gazed at the figure. Then he shook himself as
though to rouse his mind from a trance, and took up his tools. He did
not glance behind him again, and, for the time at least, his nervous
dislike of the box in the corner seemed to have ceased. He laboured with
patient care, touching and re-touching, believing that each tap of the
hammer should be the last, and yet not wholly satisfied.

The light waned, and he took down the curtain to admit the last glows of
the evening. He could do no more, art itself could have done no more to
beautify and perfect the masterpiece that lay upon the cushion before
him. The many hours he had spent in putting the last finish upon the
work had produced their result. His hand had imparted something to the
features of the dying head which had not been there before, and as he
stood over the bench he knew that he had surpassed his greatest work. He
went and fetched the black cross from the shelf, and polished its smooth
surface carefully with a piece of silk. Then he took the figure tenderly
in his hands and laid it in its position. The small screws turned evenly
in the threads, fitting closely into their well-concealed places, and
the work was finished. Marzio placed the whole crucifix upon the bench
and sat down to look at it.

It made a strong impression upon him, this thing of his own hands, and
again he remained a long time resting his chin upon his folded fingers
and gazing up at the drooping lids. The shadows lay softly on the
modelled silver, so softly that the metal itself seemed to tremble and
move, and in his reverie Marzio could almost have expected the divine
eyes to open and look into his face. And gradually the shadows deepened
more and more, and gathered into gloom till in the dark the black arms
of the cross scarcely stood out from the darkness, and in the last
lingering twilight he could see only the clear outline of the white head
and outstretched hands, that seemed to emit a soft radiance gathered
from the brightness of the departed day.

Marzio struck a match and lit his lamp. His thoughts were so wholly
absorbed that he had not remembered the workmen, nor wondered why they
had not come back. After all, most of them lived in the direction of the
church, and if they had finished their work late they would very
probably go home without returning to the shop. The chiseller wrapped
the crucifix in the old white cloth, and laid it in its plain wooden
box, but he did not screw the cover down, merely putting it on loosely
so that it could be removed in a moment. He laid his tools in order,
mechanically, as he did every evening, and then he extinguished the
light and made his way to the door, carrying the box under his arm.

The boy who alone had remained at work had lighted a tallow candle, and
was sitting dangling his heels from his stool as Marzio came out.

"Still here!" exclaimed the artist.

"Eh! You did not tell me to go," answered the lad.

Marzio locked the heavy outer door and crossed over to his house, while
the boy went whistling down the street in the dusk. Slowly the artist
mounted the stairs, pondering, as he went, on the many emotions of the
day, and at last repeating his conclusion, that he was glad that he had
not killed Paolo.

By a change of feeling which he did not wholly realise, he felt for the
first time in many years that he would be glad to see his brother alive
and well. He had that day so often fancied him dead, lying on the floor
of the workshop, or buried in a dark corner of the cellar, that the idea
of meeting him, calm and well as ever, had something refreshing in it.
It was like the waking from a hideous dream of evil to find that the
harm is still undone, to experience that sense of unutterable relief
which every one knows when the dawn suddenly touches the outlines of
familiar objects in the room, and dispels in an instant the visions of
the night.

Paolo might not come that evening, but at least Maria Luisa and Lucia
would speak of him, and it would be a comfort to hear his name spoken
aloud. Marzio's step quickened with the thought, and in another moment
he was at the door. To his surprise it was opened before he could ring,
and old Assunta came forward with her wrinkled fingers raised to her
lips.

"Hist! hist!" she whispered. "It goes a little better--or at least--"

"What? Who?" asked Marzio, instinctively whispering also.

"Eh! You have not heard? Don Paolo--they have killed him!"

"Paolo!" exclaimed Marzio, staggering and leaning against the door-post.

"He is not dead--not dead yet at least," went on the old woman in low,
excited tones. "He was in the church with Tista--a ladder--"

Marzio did not stop to hear more, but pushed past Assunta with his
burden under his arm, and entered the passage. The door at the end was
open, and he saw his wife standing in the bright light in the
sitting-room, anxiously looking towards him as though she had heard his
coming.

"For God's sake, Gigia," he said, addressing her by her old pet name,
"tell me quickly what has happened!"

The Signora Pandolfi explained as well as she could, frequently giving
way to her grief in passionate sobs. She was incoherent, but the facts
were so simple that Marzio understood them. He was standing by the
table, his hand resting upon the wooden case he had brought, and his
face was very pale.

"Let me understand," he said at last. "Tista was on the ladder. The
ladder slipped, Paolo ran to catch it, and it fell on him. He is badly
hurt, but not dead; is that it, Gigia?"

Maria Luisa nodded in the midst of a fit of weeping.

"The surgeon has been, you say? Yes. And where is Paolo lying?"

"In Tista's room," sobbed his wife. "They are with him now."

Marzio stood still and hesitated. He was under the influence of the most
violent emotion, and his face betrayed something of what he felt. The
idea of Paolo's death had played a tremendous part in his thoughts
during the whole day, and he had firmly believed that he had got rid of
that idea, and was to realise in meeting his brother that it had all
been a dream. The news he now heard filled him with horror. It seemed as
if the intense wish for Paolo's death had in some way produced a
material result without his knowledge; it was as though he had killed
his brother by a thought--as though he had had a real share in his
death.

He could hardly bear to go and see the wounded man, so strong was the
impression that gained possession of him. His fancy called up pictures
of Paolo lying wounded in bed, and he dreaded to face the sight. He
turned away from the table and began to walk up and down the little
room. In a corner his foot struck against something--the drawing board
on which he had begun to sketch the night before. Marzio took it up and
brought it to the light. Maria Luisa stared at him sorrowfully, as
though reproaching him with indifference in the general calamity. But
Marzio looked intently at the drawing. It was only a sketch, but it was
very beautifully done. He saw that his ideal was still the same, and
that upon the piece of paper he had only reproduced the features he had
chiselled ten years ago, with an added beauty of expression, with just
those additions which to-day he had made upon the original. The moment
he was sure of the fact he laid aside the board and opened the wooden
case.

Maria Luisa, who was very far from guessing what an intimate connection
existed between the crucifix and Paolo in her husband's mind, looked on
with increasing astonishment as he took out the beautiful object and Bet
it upon the table in the light. But when she saw it her admiration
overcame her sorrow for one moment.

"_Dio mio!_ What a miracle!" she exclaimed.

"A miracle?" repeated her husband, with a strange expression. "Who
knows? Perhaps!"

At that moment Gianbattista and Lucia entered through the open door, and
stood together watching the scene without understanding what was
passing. The young girl recognised the crucifix at once. She supposed
that her father did not realise Paolo's condition, and was merely
showing the masterpiece to her mother.

"That is the one I saw," she whispered to Gianbattista. The young man
said nothing, but fixed his eyes upon the cross.

"Papa," said Lucia timidly, "do you know?"

"Yes. Is he alone?" asked Marzio in a tone which was not like his own.

"There is Assunta," answered the young girl.

"I will go to him," said the artist, and without further words he lifted
the crucifix from the table and went out. His face was very grave, and
his features had something in them that none of the three had seen
before--something almost of grandeur. Gianbattista and Lucia followed
him.

"I will be alone with him," said Marzio, looking back at the pair as he
reached the door of the sick chamber. He entered and a moment afterwards
old Assunta came out and shuffled away, holding her apron to her eyes.

Marzio went in. There was a small shaded lamp on the deal table, which
illuminated the room with a soft light. Marzio felt that he could not
trust himself at first to look at his brother's face. He set the
crucifix upon the old chest of drawers, and put the lamp near it. Then
he remained standing before it with his back to the bed, and his hands
in the pockets of his blouse. He could hear the regular breathing which
told that Paolo was still alive. For a long time he could not turn
round; it was as though an unseen power held him motionless in his
position. He looked at the crucifix.

"If he wakes," he thought, "he will see it. It will comfort him if he is
going to die!"

With his back still turned towards the bed, he moved to one side, until
he thought that Paolo could see what he had brought, if consciousness
returned. Very slowly, as though fearing some horrible sight, he changed
his position and looked timidly in the direction of the sick man. At
last he saw the pale upturned face, and was amazed that such an accident
should have produced so little change in the features. He came and stood
beside the bed.

Paolo had not moved since the surgeon had left; he was lying on his
back, propped by pillows so that his face was towards the light. He was
pale now, for the flush that had been in his cheeks had subsided; his
eyelids, which had been half open, had dropped and closed, so that he
seemed to be sleeping peacefully, ready to wake at the slightest sound.

Marzio stood and looked at him. This was the man he had hated through so
many years of boyhood and manhood--the man who had faced him and opposed
him at every step--who had stood up boldly before him in his own house
to defend what he believed to be right. This was Paolo, whom he had
nearly killed that morning. Marzio's right hand felt the iron tool in
the pocket of his blouse, and his fingers trembled as he touched it,
while his long arms twitched nervously from the shoulder to the elbow.
He took it out, looked at it, and at the sick man's face. He asked
himself whether he could think of using it as he had meant to, and then
he let it fall upon the bit of green drugget by the bedside.

That was Paolo--it would not need any sharpened weapon to kill him now.
A little pressure on the throat, a pillow held over his face for a few
moments, and it would all be over. And what for? To be pursued for ever
by that same white face? No. It was not worth while, it had never been
worth while, even were that all. But there was something else to be
considered. Paolo might now die of his accident, in his bed. There would
be no murder done in that case, no haunting horror of a presence, no
discovery to be feared, since there would have been no evil. Let him
die, if he was dying!

But that was not all either. What would it be when Paolo should be dead?
Well, he had his ideas, of course. They were mistaken ideas. Were they?
Perhaps, who could tell? But he was not a bad man, this Paolo. He had
never tried to wring money out of Marzio, as some people did. On the
contrary, Marzio still felt a sense of humiliation when he thought how
much he owed to the kindness of this man, his brother, lying here
injured to death, and powerless to help himself or to save himself.
Powerless? yes--utterly so. How easy it would be, after all, to press a
pillow on the unconscious face. There would probably not even be a
struggle. Who should save him, or who could know of it? And yet Marzio
did not want to do it, as he had wished to a few hours ago. As he looked
down on the pale head he realised that he did not want Paolo to die.
Standing on the sharp edge of the precipice where life ends and breaks
off, close upon the unfathomable depths of eternity, himself firmly
standing and fearing no fall, but seeing his brother slipping over the
brink, he would put out his hand to save him, to draw him back. He would
not have Paolo die.

He gazed upon the calm features, and he knew that he feared lest they
should be still for ever. The breath came more softly, more and more
faintly. Marzio thought. He bent down low and tried to feel the warm
air as it issued from the lips. His fears grew to terror as the life
seemed to ebb away from the white face. In the agony of his
apprehension, Marzio inadvertently laid his hand upon the injured
shoulder, unconsciously pressing his weight upon the place.

With a faint sigh the priest's eyes opened and seemed to gaze for a
moment on the crucifix standing in the bright light of the lamp. An
expression of wonderful gentleness and calm overspread the refined
features.

"_Qui propter nos homines et propter nostram salutem descendit de
coelis_."

The words came faintly from the dying man's lips, the last syllables
scarcely audible in the intense stillness. A deathly pallor crept
quickly over the smooth forehead and thin cheeks. Marzio looked for one
instant more, and then with a loud cry fell upon his knees by the
bedside, his long arms extended across his brother's body. The strong
hot tears fell upon the bed coverings, and his breast heaved with
passionate sobbing.

He did not see that Paolo opened his eyes at the sound. He did not
notice the rush of feet in the passage without, as Maria Luisa and Lucia
and Gianbattista ran to the door, followed by old Assunta holding up her
apron to her eyes.

"Courage, Sor Marzio," said Gianbattista, drawing the artist back from
the bed. "You will disturb him. Do you not see that he is conscious at
last?"

Lucia was arranging the pillows under Paolo's head, and Maria Luisa was
crying with joy. Marzio sprang to his feet and stared as though he could
not believe what he saw. Paolo turned his head and looked kindly at his
brother.

"Courage, Marzio," he said, "I have been asleep, I believe--what has
happened to me? Why are you all crying?"

Marzio's tears broke out again, mingled with incoherent words of joy. In
his sudden happiness he clasped the two persons nearest to him, and
hugged them and kissed them. These two chanced to be Lucia and
Gianbattista. Paolo smiled, but the effort of speaking had tired him.

"Well," said Marzio at last, with a kinder smile than had been on his
face for many a day--"very well, children. For Paolo's sake you shall
have your own way."

Half an hour later the surgeon made his visit and assured them all that
there was no serious injury, nor any further danger to be feared. The
patient had been very badly stunned, that was all. Marzio remained by
his brother's side.

"You see, Tista," said Lucia when they were in the sitting-room, "I was
quite right about the crucifix and the rest."

"Of course," assented the Signora Pandolfi, though she did not
understand the allusion in the least. "Of course you are all of you
right. But what a day this has been, _cari miei_! What a day! Dear,
dear!" She spread out her fat hands upon her knees, looking the picture
of solid contentment.