But Barold did not make any very ardent search for Lucia. He stopped to
watch a game of lawn-tennis, in which Octavia and Lord Lansdowne had
joined, and finally forgot Lady Theobald's errand altogether.

For some time Octavia did not see him. She was playing with great spirit,
and Lord Lansdowne was following her delightedly.

Finally a chance of the game bringing her to him, she turned suddenly,
and found Barold's eyes fixed upon her.

"How long have you been there?" she asked.

"Some time," he answered. "When you are at liberty, I wish to speak to
you."

"Do you?" she said.

She seemed a little unprepared for the repressed energy of his manner,
which, he strove to cover by a greater amount of coldness than usual.

"Well," she said, after thinking a moment, "the game will soon be ended.
I am going through the conservatories with Lord Lansdowne in course of
time; but I dare say he can wait."

She went back, and finished her game, apparently enjoying it as much as
ever. When it was over, Barold made his way to her.

He had resented her remaining oblivious of his presence when he stood
near her, and he had resented her enjoyment of her surroundings; and now,
as he led her away, leaving Lord Lansdowne rather disconsolate, he
resented the fact that she did not seem nervous, or at all impressed by
his silence.

"What do you want to say to me?" she asked. "Let us go and sit down in
one of the arbors. I believe I am a little tired--not that I mind it,
though. I've been having a lovely time."

Then she began to talk about Lord Lansdowne.

"I like him ever so much," she said. "Do you think he will really go to
America? I wish he would; but if he does, I hope it won't be for a year
or so--I mean, until we go back from Europe. Still, it's rather uncertain
when we _shall_ go back. Did I tell you I had persuaded aunt Belinda to
travel with us? She's horribly frightened, but I mean to make her go.
She'll get over being frightened after a little while."

Suddenly she turned, and looked at him.

"Why don't you say something?" she demanded. "What's the matter?"

"It is not necessary for me to say any thing."

She laughed.

"Do you mean because I am saying every thing myself? Well, I suppose I
am. I am--awfully happy to-day, and can't help talking. It seems to make
the time go."

Her face had lighted up curiously. There was a delighted excitement in
her eyes, puzzling him.

"Are you so fond of your father as all that?"

She laughed again,--a clear, exultant laugh.

"Yes," she answered, "of course I am as fond of him as all that. It's
quite natural, isn't it?"

"I haven't observed the same degree of enthusiasm in all the young ladies
of my acquaintance," he returned dryly.

He thought such rapture disproportionate to the cause, and regarded it
grudgingly.

They turned into an arbor; and Octavia sat down, and leaned forward on
the rustic table. Then she turned her face up to look at the vines
covering the roof.

"It looks rather spidery, doesn't it?" she remarked. "I hope it isn't;
don't you?"

The light fell bewitchingly on her round little chin and white throat;
and a bar of sunlight struck on her upturned eyes, and the blonde rings
on her forehead.

"There is nothing I hate more than spiders," she said, with a little
shiver, "unless," seriously, "it's caterpillars--and caterpillars I
loathe."

Then she lowered her gaze, and gave her hat--a large white Rubens, all
soft, curling feathers and satin bows--a charming tip over her eyes.

"The brim is broad," she said. "If any thing drops, I hope it will drop
on it, instead of on me. Now, what did you want to say?" He had not sat
down, but stood leaning against the rustic wood-work. He looked pale, and
was evidently trying to be cooler than usual.

"I brought you here to ask you a question."

"Well," she remarked, "I hope it's an important one. You look serious
enough."

"It is important,--rather," he responded, with a tone of sarcasm. "You
will probably go away soon?"

"That isn't exactly a question," she commented, "and it's not as
important to you as to me."

He paused a moment, annoyed because he found it difficult to go on;
annoyed because she waited with such undisturbed serenity. But at length
he managed to begin again.

"I do not think you are expecting the question I am going to ask," he
said. "I--do not think I expected to ask it myself,--until to-day. I do
not know why--why I should ask it so awkwardly, and feel--at such a
disadvantage. I brought you here to ask you--to marry me."

He had scarcely spoken four words before all her airy manner had taken
flight, and she had settled herself down to listen. He had noticed this,
and had felt it quite natural. When he stopped, she was looking straight
into his face. Her eyes were singularly large and bright and clear.

"You did not expect to ask me to marry you?" she said. "Why didn't you?"

It was not at all what he had expected. He did not understand her manner
at all.

"I--must confess," he said stiffly, "that I felt at first that there
were--obstacles in the way of my doing so."

"What were the obstacles?"

He flushed, and drew himself up.

"I have been unfortunate in my mode of expressing myself," he said. "I
told you I was conscious of my own awkwardness."

"Yes," she said quietly: "you have been unfortunate. That is a good way
of putting it."

Then she let her eyes rest on the table a few seconds, and thought a
little.

"After all," she said, "I have the consolation of knowing that you must
have been very much in love with me. If you had not been very much in
love with me, you would never have asked me to marry you. You would have
considered the obstacles."

"I am very much in love with you," he said vehemently, his feelings
getting the better of his pride for once. "However badly I may have
expressed myself, I am very much in love with you. I have been wretched
for days."

"Was it because you felt obliged to ask me to marry you?" she inquired.

The delicate touch of spirit in her tone and words fired him to fresh
admiration, strange to say. It suggested to him possibilities he had not
suspected hitherto. He drew nearer to her.

"Don't be too severe on me," he said--quite humbly, considering all
things.

And he stretched out his hand, as if to take hers.

But she drew it back, smiling ever so faintly.

"Do you think I don't know what the obstacles are?" she said. "I will
tell you."

"My affection was strong enough to sweep them away," he said, "or I
should not be here."

She smiled slightly again.

"I know all about them, as well as you do," she said. "I rather laughed
at them at first, but I don't now. I suppose I'm 'impressed by their
seriousness,' as aunt Belinda says. I suppose they _are_ pretty
serious--to you."

"Nothing would be so serious to me as that you should let them interfere
with my happiness," he answered, thrown back upon himself, and bewildered
by her logical manner. "Let us forget them. I was a fool to speak as I
did. Won't you answer my question?"

She paused a second, and then answered,--

"You didn't expect to ask me to marry you," she said. "And I didn't
expect you to"--

"But now"--he broke in impatiently.

"Now--I wish you hadn't done it."

"You wish"--

"You don't want _me_," she said. "You want somebody meeker,--somebody
who would respect you very much, and obey you. I'm not used to obeying
people."

"Do you mean also that you would not respect me?" he inquired bitterly.

"Oh," she replied, "you haven't respected me much!"

"Excuse me"--he began, in his loftiest manner.

"You didn't respect me enough to think me worth marrying," she said. "I
was not the kind of girl you would have chosen of your own will."

"You are treating me unfairly!" he cried.

"You were going to give me a great deal, I suppose--looking at it in your
way," she went on; "but, if I _wasn't_ exactly what you wanted, I had
something to give too. I'm young enough to have a good many years to
live; and I should have to live them with you, if I married you. That's
something, you know."

He rose from his seat pale with wrath and wounded feeling.

"Does this mean that you refuse me?" he demanded, "that your answer is
'no'?"

She rose, too--not exultant, not confused, neither pale nor flushed. He
had never seen her prettier, more charming, or more natural.

"It would have been 'no,' even if there hadn't been any obstacle,"
she answered.

"Then," he said, "I need say no more. I see that I have--humiliated
myself in vain; and it is rather bitter, I must confess."

"It wasn't my fault," she remarked.

He stepped back, with a haughty wave of the hand, signifying that she
should pass out of the arbor before him.

She did so; but just as she reached the entrance, she turned, and stood
for a second, framed in by the swinging vines and their blossoms.

"There's another reason why it should be 'no,'" she said. "I suppose I
may as well tell you of it. I'm engaged to somebody else."


The first person they saw, when they reached the lawn, was Mr. Dugald
Binnie, who had deigned to present himself, and was talking to Mr.
Burmistone, Lucia, and Miss Belinda.

"I'll go to them," said Octavia. "Aunt Belinda will wonder where I have
been."

But, before they reached the group, they were intercepted by Lord
Lansdowne; and Barold had the pleasure of surrendering his charge, and
watching her, with some rather sharp pangs, as she was borne off to the
conservatories.

"What is the matter with Mr. Barold?" exclaimed Miss Pilcher. "Pray
look at him."

"He has been talking to Miss Octavia Bassett, in one of the arbors," put
in Miss Lydia Burnham. "Emily and I passed them a few minutes ago, and
they were so absorbed that they did not see us. There is no knowing what
has happened."

"Lydia!" exclaimed Mrs. Burnham, in stern reproof of such flippancy.

But, the next moment, she exchanged a glance with Miss Pilcher.

"Do you think"--she suggested. "Is it possible"--

"It really looks very like it," said Miss Pilcher; "though it is scarcely
to be credited. See how pale and angry he looks."

Mrs. Burnham glanced toward him, and then a slight smile illuminated her
countenance.

"How furious," she remarked cheerfully, "how furious Lady Theobald will
be!"

Naturally, it was not very long before the attention of numerous other
ladies was directed to Mr. Francis Barold. It was observed that he took
no share in the festivities, that he did not regain his natural air of
enviable indifference to his surroundings,--that he did not approach
Octavia Bassett until all was over, and she was on the point of going
home. What he said to her then, no one heard.

"I am going to London to-morrow. Good-by."

"Good-by," she answered, holding out her hand to him. Then she added
quickly, in an under-tone, "You oughtn't to think badly of me. You won't,
after a while."

As they drove homeward, she was rather silent, and Miss Belinda remarked
it.

"I am afraid you are tired, Octavia," she said. "It is a pity that Martin
should come, and find you tired."

"Oh! I'm not tired. I was only--thinking. It has been a queer day."

"A queer day, my dear!" ejaculated Miss Belinda. "I thought it a charming
day."

"So it has been," said Octavia, which Miss Belinda thought rather
inconsistent.

Both of them grew rather restless as they neared the house.

"To think," said Miss Belinda, "of my seeing poor Martin again!"

"Suppose," said Octavia nervously, as they drew up, "suppose they are
here--already."

"They?" exclaimed Miss Belinda. "Who"--but she got no farther. A cry
burst from Octavia,--a queer, soft little cry. "They are here," she
said: "they are! Jack--Jack!"

And she was out of the carriage; and Miss Belinda, following her
closely, was horrified to see her caught at once in the embrace of a
tall, bronzed young man, who, a moment after, drew her into the little
parlor, and shut the door.

Mr. Martin Bassett, who was big and sunburned, and prosperous-looking,
stood in the passage, smiling triumphantly.

"M--M--Martin!" gasped Miss Belinda. "What--oh, what does this mean?"

Martin Bassett led her to a seat, and smiled more triumphantly still.

"Never mind, Belinda," he said. "Don't be frightened. It's Jack
Belasys, and he's the finest fellow in the West. And she hasn't seen
him for two years."

"Martin," Miss Belinda fluttered, "it is not proper--it really isn't."

"Yes, it is," answered Mr. Bassett; "for he's going to marry her before
we go abroad."

It was an eventful day for all parties concerned. At its close Lady
Theobald found herself in an utterly bewildered and thunderstruck
condition. And to Mr. Dugald Binnie, more than to any one else, her
demoralization was due. That gentleman got into the carriage, in rather a
better humor than usual.

"Same man I used to know," he remarked. "Glad to see him. I knew him as
soon as I set eyes on him."

"Do you allude to Mr. Burmistone?"

"Yes. Had a long talk with him. He's coming to see you to-morrow. Told
him he might come, myself. Appears he's taken a fancy to Lucia. Wants to
talk it over. Suits me exactly, and suppose it suits her. Looks as if it
does. Glad she hasn't taken a fancy to some haw-haw fellow, like that
fool Barold. Girls generally do. Burmistone's worth ten of him."

Lucia, who had been looking steadily out of the carriage-window, turned,
with an amazed expression. Lady Theobald had received a shock which made
all her manacles rattle. She could scarcely support herself under it.

"Do I"--she said. "Am I to understand that Mr. Francis Barold does not
meet with your approval?" Mr. Binnie struck his stick sharply upon the
floor of the carriage.

"Yes, by George!" he said. "I'll have nothing to do with chaps like that.
If she'd taken up with him, she'd never have heard from _me_ again. Make
sure of that."

When they reached Oldclough, her ladyship followed Lucia to her room. She
stood before her, arranging the manacles on her wrists nervously.

"I begin to understand now," she said. "I find I was mistaken in my
impressions of Mr. Dugald Binnie's tastes--and in my impressions of
_you_. You are to marry Mr. Burmistone. My rule is over. Permit me to
congratulate you."

The tears rose to Lucia's eyes.

"Grandmamma," she said, her voice soft and broken, "I think I should have
been more frank, if--if you had been kinder sometimes."

"I have done my duty by you," said my lady.

Lucia looked at her pathetically.

"I have been ashamed to keep things from you," she hesitated. "And I have
often told myself that--that it was sly to do it--but I could not help
it."

"I trust," said my lady, "that you will be more candid with Mr.
Burmistone."

Lucia blushed guiltily.

"I--think I shall, grandmamma," she said.

It was the Rev. Alfred Poppleton who assisted the rector of St. James to
marry Jack Belasys and Octavia Bassett; and it was observed that he was
almost as pale as his surplice.

Slowbridge had never seen such a wedding, or such a bride as Octavia. It
was even admitted that Jack Belasys was a singularly handsome fellow, and
had a dashing, adventurous air, which carried all before it. There was a
rumor that he owned silver-mines himself, and had even done something in
diamonds, in Brazil, where he had spent the last two years. At all
events, it was ascertained beyond doubt, that, being at last a married
woman, and entitled to splendors of the kind, Octavia would not lack
them. Her present to Lucia, who was one of her bridesmaids, dazzled all
beholders. When she was borne away by the train, with her father and
husband, and Miss Belinda, whose bonnet-strings were bedewed with tears,
the Rev. Alfred Poppleton was the last man who shook hands with her. He
held in his hand a large bouquet, which Octavia herself had given him out
of her abundance. "Slowbridge will miss you, Miss--Mrs. Belasys," he
faltered. "I--I shall miss you. Perhaps we--may even meet again. I have
thought that, perhaps, I should like to go to America."

And, as the train puffed out of the station and disappeared, he stood
motionless for several seconds; and a large and brilliant drop of
moisture appeared on the calyx of the lily which formed the centre-piece
of his bouquet.