


An old man lived with his old wife; they had a daughter and a little son.
"Daughter, daughter," said the mother, "we are going to work; we shall bring
you back a bun, sew you a dress, and buy you a kerchief. Be careful, watch
over your little brother, do not leave the house." The parents went away and
the daughter forgot what they had told her; she put her brother on the grass
beneath the window, ran out into the street, and became absorbed in games.
Some magic swan geese came, seized the little boy, and carried him off on
their wings.

The girl came back and found her brother gone. She gasped, and rushed to look
in every corner, but could not find him. She called him, wept, and lamented
that her father and mother would scold her severely; still her little brother
did not answer. She ran into the open field; the swan geese flashed in the
distance and vanished behind a dark forest. The swan geese had long had a bad
reputation; they had done a great deal of damage and stolen many little
children. The girl guessed that they had carried off her brother, and rushed
after them. She ran and ran and saw a stove. "Stove, stove, tell me, whither
have the geese flown?" "If you eat my cake of rye I will tell you." "Oh, in my
father's house we don't even eat cakes of wheat!" The stove did not tell her.
She ran farther and saw an apple tree. "Apple tree, apple tree, tell me,
whither have the geese flown?" "If you eat one of my wild apples, I will tell
you." "Oh, in my father's house we don't even eat sweet apples." She ran
farther and saw a river of milk with shores of pudding. "River of milk, shores
of pudding, whither have the geese flown ?" "If you eat of my simple pudding
with milk, I will tell you." "Oh, in my father's house we don't even eat
cream."

She would have run in the fields and wandered in the woods for a long time, if
she had not luckily met a hedgehog. She wanted to nudge him, but was afraid
that he would prick her, and she asked: "Hedgehog, hedgehog, have you not seen
whither the geese have flown?" "Thither," he said, and showed her. She ran and
saw a little hut that stood on chicken legs and turned round and round. In the
little hut lay Baba Yaga with veined snout and clay legs, and the little
brother was sitting on a bench, playing with golden apples. His sister saw him,
crept near him, seized him, and carried him away. But the geese flew after
her: if the robbers overtook her, where would she hide?

There flowed the river of milk with shores of pudding. "Little mother river,
hide me!" she begged. "If you eat my pudding." There was nothing to be done;
she ate it, and the river hid her beneath the shore, and the geese flew by.
She went out, said "Thank you," and ran on, carrying her brother; and the
geese turned back and flew toward her. What could she do in this trouble?
There was the apple tree. "Apple tree, apple tree, little mother, hide
me !" she begged. "If you eat my wild apple." She ate it quickly. The apple
tree covered her with branches and leaves; the geese flew by. She went out
again and ran on with her brother. The geese saw her and flew after her. They
came quite close, they began to strike her with their wings; at any moment
they would tear her brother from her hands. Luckily there was the stove on her
path. "Madam Stove, hide me!" she begged. "If you eat my cake of rye." The
girl quickly stuck the cake in her mouth, went into the stove, and sat there.
The geese whirred and whirred, quacked and quacked, and finally flew away
without recovering their prey. And the girl ran home, and it was a good thing
that she came when she did, for soon afterward her mother and father arrived.

