


In a certain kingdom, in a certain land, there lived an old man and an old
woman who didn't have any children. One day the old man said, "Old woman, go
buy an onion bulb for our lunch."

The old woman bought two onion bulbs. They ate one bulb and put the other in
the stove to broil. As they waited they heard something in the oven yelling,
"Grandmother, open up! It's hot in here!" The old woman opened the oven door.
Inside she found a living girl.

"What is this?" asked the old man.

"Ah, old man! The Lord gave us a girl."

Both the old man and the old woman rejoiced whole-heartedly. They decided to
name her Onion. And so Onion grew and grew and grew until she was grown.

One day some village maidens asked, "Grandmother, let Onion come with us into
the forest to pick berries." "I won't let her go with you, you rotten
children! You will leave her in the forest." "No, grandmother, we wouldn't
leave her for anything."

The old woman let Onion go. The maidens gathered berries in the deepest,
darkest part of the forest. Suddenly they found themselves in front of a
little hut. They let themselves in and found a bear sitting on a stump.

"Hello, lovely maidens!" said the bear. "I have been waiting for you for a
long time." He seated them at the table and served them porridge. He said,
"Eat up! Whoever doesn't eat will be my bride."

All the girls but Onion ate their porridge. The bear let the other girls go
home, but he kept Onion with him. He dragged out a hammock, attached it to
the ceiling, lay down and asked her to rock him.

Onion rocked him and chanted, "Lullaby you old prick!"

"That's not right!" said the bear, "Say, 'Lullaby, precious friend!'"

There was nothing to be done. She rocked and sang, "Lullaby, precious
friend!"

In this way the bear and Onion lived for a year. After finding she was
pregnant, Onion thought she somehow must find a way to get home. Once the
bear left to hunt he blocked the door with a pile of oak logs. Onion tried to
squeeze through, exerting all of her strength. Somehow she managed to squeeze
through and ran for home.

The old man and the old woman rejoiced when she returned. They lived together
for three months. In the fourth month, Onion gave birth to a boy - half man,
half bear. They christened him Ivanson-Bearson.

Ivanson grew not by the year, but by the hour. One hour after his birth, he
was already five feet tall. It was as if someone were pulling him upward.
When he turned fifteen years old, he made mischief, playing bad pranks on
other boys. If he grabbed a boy by the hand, his hand would fly off. If he
grabbed a boy by the head, then his head would go flying off.

The peasant men complained to the old man. They said, "We don't care how,
countryman, but your son must leave! There's no reason why our children
should perish because of his brute strength!"

The old man was very sorrowful. "Why are you so gloomy, grandfather?" asked
Ivanson-Bearson. "Has someone made you sad?" The old man sighed, "Ah,
grandson! You have been taking care of the family, but the villagers say I
must send you away from here."

"Well, so be it, grandfather! That's not such a tragedy. Now here is a
tragedy - I have nothing to defend myself with. Please make me an 850 pound
iron club."

So the old man made Ivanson an 850 pound club. Ivanson said goodbye to his
grandfather and grandmother and with his club, he went wherever the wind took
him.

Walking along the road, he came to a river two miles wide. A man stood on the
bank, sucking the river into his mouth. He caught a fish in his moustache,
cooked it on his tongue and ate it.

"Hello, Usynya."

"Hello, Ivanson-Bearson! Where are you going?"

"I actually don't know. I'm going wherever the wind takes me."

"Take me with you."

"Let's go, brother! I'm happy to have company."

The pair went on and saw a champion remove an entire mountain, placing it in a
ravine, to clear his path. Ivanson was shocked. "Wow, how miraculous! You
are so extremely strong, Gorynya-Champion."

"Oh, brothers, my strength is nothing. I've heard of a fellow by the name of
Ivanson-Bearson. He's got some real strength!"

"You must be talking about me!"

"Where are you going?"

"Wherever the wind takes me."

"Take me with you, too."

"Well, let's go. I'm happy to have company."

The trio went along and saw yet another miracle - a champion was making all of
the trees in the forest the same height. If an oak tree was taller than the
others, he pounded that one into the ground. If a tree was too short, he
pulled it up out of the ground.

Ivanson was surprised. "Where does your power and great strength come from?"

"Oh, brothers, my strength is nothing. There is one Ivanson-Bearson I've
heard about. Now, he is unquestionably strong!"

"You must be talking about me!"

"Where is God taking you?"

"I don't even know, Dubynyushka-Champion! I'm going wherever the wind takes
me."

"Take me with you, too."

"Let's go. I'm happy to have company."

They became a foursome. They traveled along the path for a long time or a
short time until they found themselves in a dark, thick forest. In that
forest stood a small hut on chicken legs that was turning itself about.

Ivanson said, "Little hut, little hut! Stand with your back to the forest and
your front to us." The little hut turned to face them. The doors and windows
opened by themselves. The champions entered the hut, but nobody was there.
However the yard was full of plenty of geese, ducks and turkeys!

"Well, brothers," said Ivanson-Bearson, "we can't all sit at home. Let's draw
lots to see who stays home and who goes out to hunt."

They drew lots. It fell to Usynya-Champion to stay home while his brethren
went out to hunt. While they were gone, he whipped up what his heart
desired, washed his face and hair, and sat under the little window combing
through his locks. Suddenly everything was topsy-turvy. Grass flew into his
eyes. The earth opened, a stone emerged, and from under the stone came Baba-
Yaga. She was riding in an iron mortar, brandishing an iron cattle-prod.
Behind her, a dog barked.

"Usynya-Champion has something here for me to eat and drink!"

"Welcome, Baba-Yaga bony leg!"

He seated her at the table, serving her a portion. She ate it. He served her
another, but she gave it to the dog.

"You call this hospitality?"

With the iron prod, she beat poor little Usynya-Champion. Beat! Beat! Then
she stuffed him under the stool, taking a strip of hide from his back. Then
she ate every last crumb and left.

Usynya-Champion revived, wrapped his head with a handkerchief and sat
groaning. In came Ivanson-Bearson with his brothers.

"Well, dear Usynya-Champion, give us something to eat - whatever you made."

"Ah, brothers, I didn't cook or bake anything. I was so overcome by the
fumes! I was completely smoked out of the hut."

Gorynya-Champion stayed home the next day. He whipped up some food, washed
his face and hair, and sat under the little window combing through his locks.
Suddenly everything was topsy-turvy. Grass flew into his eyes. The earth
opened, a stone emerged, and from under the stone came Baba-Yaga. She was
riding in an iron mortar, brandishing an iron cattle-prod. Behind her, a dog
barked.

"Gorynya-Champion has something here for me to eat and drink!"

"Welcome, Baba-Yaga bony leg!"

He seated her at the table, serving her a portion. She ate it. He served her
another, but she gave it to the dog.

"You call this hospitality?"

With the iron prod, she beat poor little Gorynya-Champion. Beat! Beat! Then
she stuffed him under the stool, taking a strip of hide from his back. Then
she ate every last crumb and left.

Gorynya-Champion revived. He wrapped his head and walked with a groan.
Ivanson-Bearson and his brothers returned.

"Well, dear, Gorynya-Champion, what did you prepare for our lunch?"

"Ah, brothers, I didn't make anything. The stove emits bad fumes. The
firewood is damp, and so I was completely smoked out."

On the third day, Dubynyushka-Champion stayed home. He whipped up some food,
washed his face and hair, and sat under the little window combing out his
curls. Suddenly everything was topsy-turvy. Grass flew into his eyes. The
earth opened, a stone emerged, and from under the stone came Baba-Yaga. She
was riding in an iron mortar, brandishing an iron cattle-prod. Behind her, a
dog barked.

"Dear Dubynyushka-Champion has something here for me to eat and drink!"

"Welcome, Baba-Yaga bony leg!"

He seated her at the table, serving her a portion. She ate it. He served her
another, but she gave it to the dog.

"You call this hospitality?"

With the iron prod, she beat poor little Dubynyushka-Champion. Beat! Beat!
Then she stuffed him under the stool, taking a strip of hide from his back.
Then she ate every last crumb and left.

Dubynyushka-Champion revived. He wrapped his head and walked with a
groan. Ivanson returned.

"Well, dear Dubynyushka-Champion, let's have our lunch."

"I didn't make anything, brothers. I was so overcome by the fumes. The hut
was completely full of smoke."

On the fourth day it was Ivanson's turn to stay home. He whipped up some
food, washed his face and hair, and sat under the little window combing his
locks. Suddenly everything was topsy-turvy. Grass flew into his eyes. The
earth opened, a stone emerged, and from under the stone came Baba-Yaga. She
was riding in an iron mortar, brandishing an iron cattle-prod. Behind her, a
dog barked.

"Ivanson-Bearson has something here for me to eat and drink!"

"Welcome, Baba-Yaga bony leg!"

He seated her at the table, serving her a portion. She ate it. He served her
another, but she gave it to the dog.

"You call this hospitality?"

She brandished her prod. This so enraged Ivanson, that he ripped the prod
away from Baba-Yaga and beat her with all his might. Beat! Beat! He beat
her half to death. He ripped three strips of flesh from her back and locked
her in the pantry just as his comrades were returning home.

"Ivanson, let's eat!"

"If you please, friends, be seated."

They sat down at the table and much to their surprise, Ivanson served them
piles of food. The champions ate their fill. Among themselves they said,
"Notice, Baba-Yaga didn't come!"

After lunch, Ivanson-Bearson heated the banya and they all went to bathe. As
Usynya-Champion, Dubynyushka-Champion, and Gorynya-Champion bathed, they tried
to keep Ivanson from seeing their backs.

Ivanson said to them, "Why, brothers, are you hiding your backs from me?"

There was nothing for the champions to do. They confessed that Baba-Yaga came
while they were at home alone and ripped a strip of skin off of each of their
backs.

"I see now what smoked you all out of the hut!" said Ivanson ironically.

He ran to the pantry and took the champions' hides from Baba-Yaga. Returning
with the flesh, he layed them on their backs and they were all immediately
healed. After that, Ivanson-Bearson tied a rope to Baba-Yaga's legs and hung
her on the gate.

"Well, brothers, load your firearms and let's have a little target practice.
Whoever can shoot through the rope is the winner!"

Usynya-Champion fired first. He missed. Gorynya-Champion fired second.  His
shot went wide. Dubynyushka-Championfired third. He barely nicked the rope.
But, Ivanson's shot cut through the rope. Baba-Yaga fell to the ground. She
jumped up, ran to the rock, lifted it up and went under ground.

Hot in pursuit, the champions threw themselves at the stone. One tried and
then the other to lift the stone. But it wouldn't budge. Then Ivanson ran
up. As soon as he kicked the stone, it flung aside and a hole opened in
the ground.

"Who, brothers, is going to crawl in?" Nobody wanted to.

"Well," said Ivanson-Bearson, "apparently, I must crawl in!"

On the edge of the chasm, he placed a stump, from which he hung a bell. After
attaching one end of a rope to the bell, he grabbed onto the other end.
Holding onto the rope, he instructed, "Now, let me down. As soon as I ring
the bell, pull me back up."

The champions lowered him into the hole. Ivanson saw that he was at the end
of the rope but still hadn't reached the bottom. So from out of his pocket,
he pulled the three big strips of flesh he'd ripped from Baba-Yaga's back. He
tied them to the rope and let himself down into that world.

He followed a well-kept road, walking and walking until he came to a palace
where three beautiful maidens sat.

They all asked him, "Ah, good man, why have you come here? Do you not realize
our mother is Baba-Yaga, and she will eat you?"

"Yeah, where is she?"

"She is sleeping right now. There is a steel sword at her head. Do not touch
it. If you do, she will instantly wake up and lash you with the sword. This
is what you had better do: take two golden apples on a silver dish, wake Baba-
Yaga quietly, and tenderly ask her to partake of the apples. She'll raise her
head and open her jaw wide. As soon as she begins eating the apple, grab the
steel sword and cut off her head in one stroke. Do not strike a second time.
If you do, she'll immediately come back to life and put you to a cruel death."

Ivanson did exactly as instructed. He cut off Baba-Yaga's head and took the
beautiful maidens back with him to the hole. He tied the eldest sister to the
rope, rang the bell and yelled, "Here you go, Usynya-Champion, a wife!"

The champions pulled her out and let the rope back down.  Ivanson tied another
sister to the rope, "Here you go, Gorynya-Champion, a wife!" And they pulled
up that one.

He tied the youngest sister and yelled, "This one is my wife!"

Dubynyushka-Champion was angry. As soon as they were pulling up Ivanson-
Bearson, he grabbed his club and chopped the rope into two pieces.

Ivanson fell and painfully struck the ground. The goodly youth eventually
came to his senses but didn't know what to do. He sat there for three days
without eating or drinking. He was wasting away from hunger. Then he
thought, "I'll go and search in the storerooms of Baba-Yaga. There I can
surely find something to eat."

As he went along through the storerooms, eating and drinking his fill, he
stumbled upon a secret passageway. He walked and walked until he came out
into the wide world. He walked along an open field and saw a beautiful maiden
shepherding livestock. He approached her and recognized his betrothed.
"What are you doing, clever girl?"

"I'm tending these flocks. My sisters are getting married to champions, but I
don't want to marry Dubynyushka-Champion so he forced me to look after the
cows."

In the evening, the beautiful maiden drove the herd home while Ivanson-Bearson
followed her. He entered the hut where Usynya-Champion, Gorynya-Champion, and
Dubynyushka-Champion were sitting at the table making merry.

Ivanson said to them, "Good people! Give me at least one little shot of
something to drink."

They brought him a shot of vodka. He drank it and asked for another. They
gave him another. He drank it and asked for a third. By the time he drank
the third, he was sufficiently fired up that he grabbed a battle club and
killed all three champions, throwing their bodies into the open field for wild
beasts to devour. After that, he took his declared bride with him to the old
man and to the old woman. With them they celebrated their marriage.

At the wedding there was a lot of drinking and a lot of eating. I also was at
the wedding. I drank mead. It flowed along my moustache, while my mouth
stayed dry. They gave me some beer. My tale has come to an end.

