


Once upon a time there lived an old man and an old woman.  The old man and the
old woman had three daughters.  The old woman hated the oldest, who was her
step-daughter. She frequently reproved her, woke her early in the morning and
dumped all the work on her.  The girl made sure the flocks were fed and
watered.  She swept the hut. She would even clean up during the night.

Still, the old woman was very unsatisfied and chided Marfusha, "What
lazy-bones! What a careless slattern! The broom is in the wrong place! Nothing
is quite right! It's dusty in the hut!"

The girl held her tongue and only cried. She did everything she could to
please her step-mother and to serve her step-mother's daughters. But her
half-sisters, following their mother's lead, did everything they could to
provoke Marfusha.  They thoroughly enjoyed seeing her crying, so they niggled
her constantly.  Her half-sisters always slept-in in the morning. They washed
with water prepared by someone else, dried off with a clean towel and only
started their work at noon.

The girls in this story grew and grew.  They grew up and became eligible
maidens.  It's quick to tell a tale, but not quick for the deed to be done.

Well, the old man grieved for his oldest daughter. He loved her. She was an
obedient and diligent child.  She was never obstinate and always did what she
was told.  She never back-talked.  Yet, the old man didn't know how to ease
her burden.  Afterall, he was sickly, his wife was a complainer, and his other
daughters were lazy and stubborn.

As time passed, the old couple thought their own thoughts concerning their
daughters.  The old man thought about how to provide for their future, while
the old woman thought only about how she could get the oldest daughter off her
hands.

One day the old woman spoke to the old man, "Well, old man, let's give
Marfusha to wife." "All right," said the old man and climbed up on the stove.
The old woman followed him, "Tomorrow, get up earlier than usual, old man.
Harness the mare to the sledge and drive with Marfusha.  And you, Marfusha,
gather your things into a little box and put on your petticoats.  Tomorrow
you're going to be someone's guest!"

The good Marfusha was happy to hear such great news.  She was going on a
visit!  She had sweet dreams all night long.  In the morning, she got up
early, washed herself, prayed to God, gathered her things, properly packed
them, and dressed herself up. She was a lovely young woman - fit to be a
wonderful bride!

Yet, it was winter-time.  Outside it was bitterly cold.  In the darkness of
the early morning, the old man harnessed the mare to the sledge.  He led it to
the porch and went into the hut.  Sitting on a bolster, he said, "Well, I got
everything ready!" "Sit up to the table and eat!" said the old woman.  The old
man sat at the table, making a place for his daughter as well.  The bread
container was on the table.  He pulled out a cottage-loaf and broke off a
piece of bread for himself and for his daughter.  Meanwhile, the old woman
served them old soup in a bowl and said, "Well, pidgeon, eat and then get out.
I've had to look at you long enough!  Old man, take Marfusha to the groom.
Now, pay attention, old geezer!  Drive by the straight road. Turn off the road
to the right towards the forest, you know which one I'm talking about,
straight to the big fir tree on the knoll.  There give Marfusha to be Jack
Frost's wife."

The old man started sobbing.  He opened his mouth wide and stopped slurping
his soup, while the girl started to wail.  "Well, why don't you stop your
blubbering?  The groom is, after all, quite handsome and rich, isn't he?  Just
see how much he has: all the luxurious forests with fir trees, pines, and
birches.  His abode is coveted. And he, himself, is a-kind-of-a-hero!"

The old man silently packed his daughters belongings. He wrapped his daughter
in an old, worn-out jacket and they started on their journey.  Whether they
drove for a long time or a short time, I don't know.  It's quick to tell a
tale, but not quick for the deed to be done.

Finally, they arrived at the pine forest, turned off the road and went
straight through the crusty snow.  Fighting his way deep into the trees, he
stopped and directed his daughter to climb off the sledge.  He placed her box
underneath a massive fir tree and said, "Sit and wait for the groom. Be sure
to receive him as tenderly as possible."  After which, he turned the horse
around and went home.

The girl sat, trembling.  A chill overcame her.  She wanted to cry, but she
didn't have the strength.  Only her teeth chattered.  Suddenly, she heard
something.  Not far away Jack Frost was crackling in a tree.  He was crinkling
and crackling from one tree to another.  He alighted in the very fir tree
under which Marfusha was sitting.  From above her, he said, "Are you warm,
maiden?" "Yes, I'm warm, dear Frost."

Jack Frost dropped himself lower, crinkling and crackling along the way.
Frost asked the girl, "Are you warm, maiden?  Are you warm, my beauty?" The
maiden, with barely any breath left, said, "I'm warm, Frosty! I'm warm, dear!"
Frost crinckled more and crackled louder and said to the maiden, "Are you
warm, maiden?  Are you warm, my beauty?  Are you warm, honey?" The maiden
turned completely rigid and in a barely audible voice said, "Oh, so warm, my
darling Jack."

At this, Frost took pity on Marfusha.  He wrapped her up in heavy coats and
warmed her in blankets. In the morning the old woman said to her husband, "Go,
old geezer, and wake up the newlyweds!" The old man harnessed the horse and
left.  Arriving where he left his daughter, he found her alive! She wore a
good winter coat, an expensive wedding veil and had a box full of luxurious
presents.  Not saying a single word, the old man piled everything on the
sledge and left for home with his daughter.  When they arrived home the maiden
fell at the feet of her step-mother.  The old woman marveled that her daughter
was still alive - with a new winter coat, and a box full of linen!  "Hey, slut,
don't try and bamboozle me!"

After a little time had passed, the old woman said to the old man, "Bring my
other daughters to the groom too.  Surely, he'll give them even more
presents!" It's quick to tell a tale, but not quick for the deed to be done.

Early the next morning, the old woman fed her children and according to custom
prepared them as brides and sent them on their way.  The old man took them the
same way he went before, leaving the two daughters below the large fir tree.
As the girls sat, they started to joke, "What is this our mother's thought up?
For both of us to be suddenly given in marriage?  As if there were no young
men in our own village!  Some ugly devil is going to drive up and we won't
even know what he's really like."

The girls were wearing winter jackets.  All the same they became quite cold.
"What is going on Parakha?  The cold is boring a hole through my skin.  Since
our mysterious-mister-right isn't coming, we are going to freeze here."  "No
need to exaggerate, Mashka!  It's probably still too early for the suitors to
be gathering. Now, if there was only a meal out here." "So, Parakha, if only
one suitor comes, who will he take?" "You're not saying he'd take you, silly?"
"Yeah, so you're saying he'd take you?" "Of course he will take me." "You?
Don't kid yourself!"

Jack Frost froze the girls' hands.  So they shoved their hands into their arm-
pits and started up again over the same thing. "Oh, you slow brat!  You awful
shrew!  Rotten snout!  You can't spin and you don't even come close to being
able to weave." "Ooh, you braggart! And what can you do?  Only wander around
gossiping with the neighbors!  We'll see who the suitor takes!"

And so, they bickered back and forth while becoming seriously cold. Suddenly,
at the same time they said, "Shanks! What's taking him so long?  Look at you!
You've turned blue!" And so, from far away Jack Frost started to crackle as he
jumped from tree to tree, crinkling and crackling as he went.  The maidens
heard someone coming.

"Listen, Parakha, someone is coming, and they have a bell with them." "Go
away, you, slut!  I can't hear a thing.  I'm freezing to death." "I'm sure
you'll be chosen to be the bride."  And they started to blow on their fingers.
Jack Frost came closer and closer.  Finally, he alighted on the fir tree above
the maidens.  He said to the maidens, "Are you warm, maidens? Are you warm, my
beauties?  Are you warm, my little pigeons?"

"Oh, Jack Frost, it's bitterly and painfully cold!  We're frozen through.
We're waiting for our betrothed, and curse him, he has fled." Jack Frost
lowered himself with more crinkling and louder crackling.  "Are you warm,
maidens?  Are you warm, my beauties?" "To the devil with you!  Are you blind
or something?  Can't you see that our arms and legs are frozen solid?"  Jack
Frost dropped himself lower very quickly and said, "Are you warm, maidens?"
"Go to hell with all the devils!  Scram, you cursed one!"  Right then, the
girls were frozen solid.

In the morning the old woman said to her husband, "Harness the sledge up, old
man.  Place a handful of hay on it and bring heavy blankets.  No doubt, the
girls have gotten a little chilly.  After all it's pretty cold out there!  So,
see that you get out there quickly, old geezer!" The old man didn't even have
time to even finish his meal before he was outside and on the road.  He came
for his daughters and discovered them dead.  He placed their bodies on the
sledge, covered them with the blanket and enclosed them in a rough sack.
The old woman, seeing the old man coming from far away, ran out to meet them
and asked him, "Where are the children?" "In the sledge." The old woman turned
back the sack, pulled off the blanket and discovered her children were dead.
Suddenly, like a thunderstorm, the old woman erupted and lashed into the old
man.  "What did you do, you old dog?  You killed my daughters, my own
children, my dearest little ones, my beautiful little berries!  I'm going to
thrash you with a shovel!  I'm going to flog you with the poker!"

"That's enough, you old hag!  You were tempted by riches and your children
were mule-headed!  Am I to blame for that?  You're the one who killed them."
The old woman became angry and cursed. In time, the old woman made up with her
step-daughter. They prospered, bearing no ill will toward one another.  A
neighbor soon came asking for Marfusha's hand in marriage.  The wedding was
held.  Marfusha lived happily.  And the old man frightened his granchildren
with stories of Jack Frost so they wouldn't be stubborn. I was at the wedding,
I drank the mead-beer.  It flowed along my moustache but not into my mouth.

