


Once upon a time there lived a man and a woman who had two sons and one daughter. One
day the father sent his sons to plough. They asked, "Who will bring us our lunch?" The father
said, "The girl."

The girl asked, "How will I find you there?"

Then the brothers answered, "After coming to the mountain you will see three paths. You should
follow the one with shavings on it."

A dragon saw the brothers marking the path with shavings; he then took those shavings and
scattered them on the way to his own courtyard. The mother cooked lunch and gave it to her
daughter to carry. The girl went out to the mountain and walked along the path with the
shavings, came to the dragon's courtyard, who then caught her and threw her into a hole.

The brothers waited and waited for their lunch, finally they unharnessed their oxen, left them to
graze, went home, and asked their mother: "Mom, where is our lunch?"

Mother said, "I've sent it with the girl a long time ago."

So they waited for her until the evening. In the morning after waking up they saw that she hadn't
come back! The brothers said, "It must be that cursed dragon who caught her."

They got dressed and went to look for their sister. They walked and walked - when suddenly
they saw the herdsman tending a herd. They greeted each other; the herdsman asked,
"Where are you going?"

They replied, "To the dragon - to take our sister back."

"If you want to set your sister free - you should eat my biggest ox."

But they didn't want to and went further. They walked and walked - when suddenly they saw the
shepherd tending the sheep. They greeted him. He asked, "Where are you going?"

"To the dragon - to take our sister back"

"If you want to set your sister free - you should eat my biggest ram."

But they didn't want to and went further.

They walked and walked - when suddenly they saw the swine breeder tending the swine. They
greeted him. He asked, "Where are you going?"

"To the dragon - to take our sister back"

"If you want to set your sister free - you should eat my biggest hog."

But they didn't want to and went further. They walked and walked - when suddenly they saw the
dragon standing near his house. The dragon greeted them and asked, "Why did you come
here?"

"We have come to you - to take back our sister"

"If you want to set your sister free - you have to eat twelve oxen, twelve rams and twelve hogs."

But they managed to eat only tiny pieces and no longer wanted anymore. Dragon then pinned
them under a stone.

Mother cried that neither her sons nor daughter came back home. Once, she took the buckets
and went to the well to fetch water. After collecting water and as she was on her way back a
rolling pea on the road hopped into a bucket, unknown to her.

After coming home she poured the water - then she looked inside: there was a pea in one of the
buckets, she took and ate it, and a son was born from that pea.

He was given the name, Rolling Pea; he grew not by the hour, but by the minute.

Once during supper Rolling Pea asked, "Did you have any other children, mom?"

"I had two sons and one daughter."

"And where are they?"

"The dragon stole my daughter, then my sons went to look for her, but neither my sons nor my
daughter ever came back."

He finished eating, put his shoes on and got dressed.

"I will go and find them."

Then Rolling Pea went to the smith and asked him to make a large mace. The smith made him
a large mace; Rolling Pea took that mace, paid and then went on his way.

He walked and walked - when suddenly he saw the herdsman tending the herd. He greeted him
and then the herdsman asked, "Where are you going?"

"To the dragon - to take my sister back"

"Eat my biggest ox and then you can set your sister free."

He ate it, thanked him and went further. He walked and walked - when suddenly he saw the
shepherd tending sheep. He greeted him as well, and the shepherd asked, "Where are you
going?"

He said, "To the dragon - to take my sister back."

"Eat my biggest ram and then you can set your sister free."

He ate it, thanked him and went further. He walked and walked - when suddenly he saw the
swine breeder tending the swine. He greeted him as well and the swine breeder asked, "Where
are you going?"

"To the dragon - to take my sister back."

"Eat my biggest hog and then you can set your sister free."

He ate it, thanked him and went further. He walked and walked until he saw dragon's home and
his sister collecting water from the well.

"Hello, sister," said Rolling Pea.

She said to him, "Surely you are not my brother?"

He said, "You will see that I am!"

The dragon came out, "Ah, hello!" he said.

"Hello!"

The dragon asked him, "Why did you come here?"

"I came for my sister and brothers."

"Eat twelve oxen, twelve rams and twelve hogs."

He ate them all. The dragon said, "Well done!"

"Now, do you want to fight me or to make peace with me?"

"I want to fight you! I don't want to make peace with you."

"Blow the horn," said dragon.

"You blow first," said Rolling Pea. "You are the master of the house in this case, not me."

The dragon blew the horn and it turned into cast iron; Rolling Pea blew the horn and it turned
into copper.

Rolling Pea hit the dragon with his mace, so that he sank ankle-deep in the ground, Rolling Pea
struck him the second time and killed the dragon. Then he cut the dragon into small pieces,
scattered his ashes, set his brothers free from under the stone, took his sister, and they all went
back home. His father and his mother were again happy!

