


This tale starts with gray, red, and chestnut things. On the sea, on the
ocean, on the island Buyane was a baked bull. Near it was a ground onion.
Three youths walked, stopped by and had breakfast and then went farther. They
boasted, entertaining themselves. We, brothers, were in that place and
stuffed ourselves fuller than a country woman's dough! This is only the pre-
tale, the real story is yet to come.

In a certain kingdom, in a certain land that was as flat and smooth as a table
cloth, there lived a king who had no children. The king questioned a
wandering beggar, "What should I do to have children?"

The beggar answered, "Gather boys and girls, all seven years old. In the course of
one night have the girls spin and the boys weave a trawl net. Then, using
that net, catch the golden-finned bream and give him to the queen to eat."

By following the beggar's instructions, they caught the golden-finned bream
and sent it to the kitchen for cooking. The chef gutted and cleaned the
bream. She threw the entrails to the dog, the swill to three mares, she
gnawed the bones herself, and the queen ate the fish. Lo and behold, the dog,
the three mares, the chef, and the queen all gave birth at the same time. The
queen had a son, the chef had a son, the dog had a son, and out of the three
mares came three foals. The king named the boys Ivan Kingson, Ivan Chefson,
and Ivan Dogson.

The good youths grew not by the day, nor by the hour, but by the minute, until
they were fully grown.

Ivan Dogson sent Ivan Kingson to the king. "Ask the king if we may saddle
those three horses the mares carried so that we may ride around the city."

The king consented. They saddled the horses and rode out past the city.
Speaking among themselves, they questioned, "Why should we live with the king?
It would be better to ride to foreign lands!" So they procured iron and made
themselves each a 300-pound club and led their horses on.

After a little while, Ivan Dogson said, "Brothers, how are we going to make
decisions when we don't have an eldest brother? We need to do something to
determine the eldest brother."

"Father made me eldest," Kingson said.

However Dogson said they should test their strength by throwing a javelin. And so
they threw the javelin one after the other: first Ivan Kingson, next Ivan Chefson,
and finally Dogson. They rode a good distance - and there lay Kingson's
javelin. A little bit beyond that fell Chefson's javelin. But still,
Dogson's javelin was nowhere to be seen! They rode on and on - through
thrice-nine lands into the thrice-tenth kingdom, into an entirely different realm altogether
- and there was Dogson's spear. Immediately they were decided. Kingson would
be the youngest brother, Chefson the middle brother, and Dogson the eldest.

They continued on their way, once again on the path with the steppe spreading
out before them. On the steppe there was a tent with a horse standing outside
eating raw wheat and drinking honey nectar.

Ivan Dogson sent Ivan Kingson to the tent. "Go over there and find out who is
in the tent."

So Kingson entered the tent. There lying on the bed was White Polyanin.
White Polyanin thumped Kingson on the forehead with his pinky finger and threw
him under the bed.

Dogson waited, waited and couldn't wait any longer. He ran to the tent
himself. He struck White Polyanin, knocking his eyes backward into his head!
After Dogson carried White Polyanin out of the tent, a fresh breeze brought
him to his senses.

He pled, "Don't kill me! Take me for your youngest brother!"

Ivan Dogson pardoned him. And so the four brothers saddled up their steeds
and rode through hill and dale. For a long time or a short time they rode
until they came to a two-story house with a golden roof. Entering the house,
they found it clean and tidy. It was well stocked with drinks and victuals,
but there was not a single living soul. They thought and thought and decided
to lay over here for a time.

In the morning, three of the brothers rode out to hunt, while Ivan Kingson
stayed home to look after domestic matters. He boiled and fried various
what-have-yous for lunch, and then sat on the bench and smoked his pipe.

Suddenly an old man asking for alms arrived in a mortar, propped up
with a pole. Under him was a platform seven fathoms wide. Kingson gave him a
whole loaf of bread, but the grandfather wasn't after a loaf. He latched
onto Kingson and with a hook pulled him into the mortar. Lickety-split he
ripped off of Kingson's back a strip of flesh right up to his shoulders. The
old man grabbed the fleshy husk and threw it under the bed.

The brothers returned from the hunt and asked Kingson, "Nobody came over?"

"I didn't see anybody. You didn't, did you?"

"No, we didn't see anybody either!"

The next day, Ivan Chefson stayed home, and the others went out on the hunt.
He prepared lunch and sat on the bench smoking his pipe. Up rode the
old man in a mortar, asking for alms, propped up with a pole. Under him
was a platform seven fathoms wide. Chefson gave him a roll, but the
grandfather was not after the roll, but after Chefson. With a hook he pulled
Chefson into the mortar. Lickety-split, the old man ripped off Chefson's skin
up to his shoulders and threw the fleshy husk under the bed.

The brothers returned from their hunt and asked, "Did anybody come?"

"No, nobody! You didn't see anybody, did you?"

"No, we didn't see anybody either."

The third day, White Polyanin stated home. He prepared lunch and sat on the
bench smoking his pipe. Up came the old man in a mortar, asking for alms,
propped up with a pole. Under him was a platform seven fathoms wide. White
Polyanin gave him a roll, but he wasn't there for the roll, but for White
Polyanin. With a hook, the old man pulled White Polyanin into the mortar.
Lickety-split, he ripped off White Polyanin's skin up to his shoulders,
throwing the raw husk under the bed.

The brothers came back from the hunt, "Did you see anybody?"

"No, nobody. And you?"

"Same for us!"

On the fourth day, Ivan Dogson stayed home. He prepared lunch and sat on the
bench smoking his pipe. Again came the old man in a mortar, asking for
alms, propped up with a pole. Under him was a platform seven fathoms wide.
Dogson gave him a roll. The old man didn't grab the roll, he grabbed Dogson.
When the old man hooked him into the mortar, the mortar broke into pieces.
Ivan Dogson grabbed the old man by the head and dragged him to the willow
stump. He then split the stump into two and wedged the old man's beard
into the crack. Then Dogson went inside.

As the brothers were returning home, they talked amongst themselves. "Well,
brothers, didn't anything happen to you?" asked Kingson. "My shirt has
completely fused to my skin!"

"Well the same thing has happened to us! We can't even touch our backs. That
cursed old man! He's probably already flayed Dogson too."

They arrived home.

"Well, Dogson Ivan, was anybody here?"

"There was one insolent fellow, so I gave him some of his own medicine!"

"Well what did you do to him?"

"I split a stump and wedged his beard into it."

"Let's go and see!"

They came to look at the old man, but he had already vanished!

As soon as the old man found himself trapped, he struggled until he ripped out
the whole stump with all its roots.  He carried it with him into the other
world. And from that world he came to his own house under the golden roof.

The brothers followed along in his tracks. They walked and walked until they
came to a mountain. In that mountain was a door, which they flung open. They
tied a rock to a rope and lowered it into the hole. As soon as the rock hit
the bottom, they pulled it back up and tied Ivan Dogson to the rope.

Dogson said, "In three days when I shake the rope, pull me right up!"

And so they lowered him into that other world. He remembered that princesses
were stolen into that world by three serpents.

"I'll go and seek them out!"

He walked and walked until he came to a two story house. Out came a maiden.
"Why, Russian man, have you come to our courtyard?"

"Why do you ask questions? First, please give me some water to rinse my eyes,
feed me, give me something to drink, and then you can ask your questions."

She brought him water, fed him, gave him something to drink, and led him to
the princess.

"Hello, wonderful maiden!"

"Hello, good fellow! Why have you come?"

"I have come for you. I want to wage war with your husband."

"Oh, you won't be able to win me! My husband is incredibly strong - with six
heads!"

"With God as my help, I will not only fight with one head, but with him too!"

The princess hid him behind the doors as the serpent was already flying in.

"Phooey, it reeks of Russian bones!"

"Darling, you were flying over Russia. You've got the smell of Russian bones
all over you!" said the princess. As she was serving him dinner, she deeply
sighed.

"Why, pigeon, are you sighing?"

"How can I not sigh? This is the fourth year of our marriage, and I haven't
seen either my father or my mother. Tell me, if one of my relatives came
here, what would you do to him?"

"What would I do? We would drink and make merry."

In response, from behind the doors, out came Ivan Dogson.

"Ah, Dogson! Hello. Why have you come? As friend or foe?"

"As foe, clear some space!"

The serpent blew and there appeared an iron spear with silver edging, while
Dogson blew and there appeared a silver spear with gold edging. He
struck the serpent once, killing him. He then burned the serpent and
scattered his ashes in the wind. The princess presented Dogson with a ring,
which he took and went further.

He walked and walked, and again there was a two-story house. A maiden came
out to meet him and asked, "Why, Russian man, have you come to our courtyard?"

"Why do you ask questions? First, give me some water to rinse my eyes, feed
me, give me something to drink, and then you can ask your questions."

And so she brought him water, fed him, gave him something to drink and led him
to the princess.

"Why did you come?" said the princess.

"I came for you, I want to wage war with your husband."

"It's unlikely you will fight with my husband! My husband is incredibly
strong. He has nine heads!"

"I, with one, will fight them all, God as my helper." The princess hid her
guest behind the doors - the serpent was already flying in.

"Phooey, it reeks of Russian bones!"

"It's just that you were flying around Russia. You've picked up the smell of
Russian bones!" said the princess. She served dinner with a sigh.

"Darling, why are you sighing?"

"How can I not sigh when I don't get to see either my father or my mother.
What would you do if one of my relatives came here?"

"I would drink and make merry with him."

Ivan Dogson walked out from behind the doors.

"Ah, Dogson! Hello," said the serpent, "Why have you come? As friend or foe?"

"As foe, clear some space!"

The serpent blew and there appeared an iron spear with silver edging, while
Dogson blew and there appeared a silver spear with gold edging. He struck
the serpent once, killing him. He then burned the serpent and scattered his
ashes in the wind. The princess presented Dogson with a ring, which he took
and went further.

He walked and walked. Again he came to the same type of house with two
stories. A maiden came out to meet him. "Why, Russian man, have you come to
our courtyard?"

"First, give me water to rinse my eyes, feed me, give me something to drink,
and only then ask your questions!"

She brought him water, fed him, gave him something to drink, and led him to
the princess.

"Hello, Ivan Dogson! Why have you come?"

"I have come for you. I want to take you away from the serpent."

"How are you going to take me away? My husband is incredibly strong and has
twelve heads!"

"I, with one, will fight him just as well, if God is my helper!"

He entered the back room. There the twelve-headed serpent was slumbering.
Each time the serpent exhaled the whole ceiling shook! Dogson noticed the
serpent's thirteen-hundred-pound club leaning in the corner. Ivan Dogson put
his own club in the corner and grabbed the serpent's, and then he swung the
club. When he struck the serpent a rumble spread throughout the estate! The
roof flew off the house! Ivan Dogson killed the twelve-headed serpent, burned
his body, and scattered his ashes in the wind.

The princess smiled at him and said, "We will live together here!" But he
asked her to come with him instead.

"How can I leave all my riches?"

She gathered all her wealth into a golden egg and gave it to Ivan Dogson. He
put the egg in his pocket and together they went back to her sisters. The
middle princess also gathered all her wealth, but into a silver egg, and the
youngest put her wealth into a bronze egg. They gave the eggs to Ivan Dogson.

The foursome came to the shaft. Ivan Dogson tied the youngest princess to the
rope and tugged the rope.

He said, "As soon as they pull you to the top, call out, 'Kingson!' He'll
reply, 'Here!' You say, 'I'm yours!'"

Then he tied the other princess to the rope and again tugged the rope
signaling to his brothers to pull it up. "As soon as they pull you up, then
call, 'Chefson!' He'll reply, 'Here!' You say, 'I'm yours!'"

He began to tie the rope around the third princess and said to her, "As soon
as they pull you out, stay silent - you will be mine!"

They pulled out this last princess, and she stayed silent, which made White
Polyanin very mad. As they were pulling Ivan Dogson out, White Polyanin in
anger grabbed the rope and cut through it.

Dogson fell to the ground, got up, and went to the old man.

The old man questioned him, "Why did you come?"

"To fight!"

They started to fight. They fought and fought. Fatigued, they went for some
water. The old man made a mistake: he gave Dogson the water of strength to
drink, while he only drank plain water. Ivan Dogson began to gain the upper
hand.

Thereupon the old man said, "Don't kill me! Go into the cellar. There you
will find three pieces of hide. Take them with the flintstone and the piece
of steel. They will serve you well when you are in trouble."

Ivan Dogson took the flint, the piece of steel, and three pieces of hide. He
lit a fire scorching the gray hide - a gray stallion ran to him. Dirt clods
flew from under its hooves, steam spewed from its mouth, and columns of smoke
rose from its ears.

"Would it take you a long time to carry me into that other world?"

"Faster than you can make your lunch!"

Dogson scorched the black fur - a black stallion ran to him. Dirt clods flew
from under the hooves, steam spewed from its mouth, and smoke rose from its
ears.

"Can you carry me quickly into that other world?"

"Faster than you can eat your lunch!"

He scorched the auburn hide and up came the auburn stallion. Dirt clods flew
from under the hooves, steam spewed from the mouth, and smoke rose from the
ears.

"Can you carry me quickly to that other world?"

"Faster than you can spit!"

He mounted the auburn stallion and found himself in his own land.

He presented himself to the goldsmith. "I," he said, "will be your
assistant!"

Later, the youngest princess came and ordered the goldsmith, "Make me a golden
ring for my wedding!"

He undertook the work, but Ivan Dogson said, "Wait, I'll make the ring for
you, just give me a bag of nuts."

The goldsmith brought him a bag of nuts. Ivan Dogson ate the nuts and beat on
some gold with a hammer. Then, he pulled out the princess' little ring,
cleaned it and gave it to his master.

The princess came on Saturday for the ring. Looking at it she said, "Ah, what
a wonderful little ring! I gave one just like it to Ivan Dogson, but he's not
in this world!"

She invited the goldsmith to her wedding. The next day, the goldsmith went to
the wedding, while Ivan Dogson stayed home. He scorched the gray hide and up
ran the gray stallion.

"What do you desire of me?"

"I need to pull down a chimney!"

"Sit on me. Look into my left ear and out the right!"

He looked into the left ear and out the right - and he became so great that it
can't be told in a tale or written with a pen. He galloped to the house and
pulled down the chimney. Immediately everyone screamed. Panic ensued and the
wedding disbanded.

Later, the other princess brought gold, asking that a ring be made. Ivan
Dogson said to the goldsmith, "You just give me two bags of nuts. I'll make
you a ring."

"Well, go ahead."

Dogson ate the nuts and beat some gold with a hammer. Then, he pulled out the
princess' ring, cleaned it and handed it over.

The princess saw the ring, "Ah, how glorious! I gave an exact copy of this to
Ivan Dogson who is no longer in this world!" She took the ring and invited
the goldsmith to the wedding. He went to the wedding, while Ivan Dogson
scorched the black hide. Up ran the black stallion.

"What do you desire of me?"

"I need to pull down the roof at the wedding house."

"Sit on me. Look into my left ear and look out the right!"

He looked into the left ear and looked out the right. He became so
exceedingly great! The stallion carried him so surely, and he ripped the roof
from the house. Everyone screamed. They shot at the stallion with their guns
but couldn't hit their mark. Another wedding disbanded.

The eldest princess also asked that a ring be made for her. She said, "I
didn't want to marry White Polyanin but, apparently, God has thus judged!"

Ivan Dogson said to the goldsmith, "Just give me three bags of nuts. I'll
make you a ring." Again, he ate the nuts and beat some gold with a hammer.
Then, he pulled out the princess' ring, cleaned it and handed it over.

On Saturday, the princess came for the ring. When she saw it, she exclaimed,
"Ah, what a glorious ring! My goodness! Where did you get this ring? I gave
away its replica to the man, whom I loved." And she invited the goldsmith,
"Visit me tomorrow at my wedding!"

The next day, the goldsmith went to the wedding, while Ivan Dogson stayed home
and scorched the auburn hide - the auburn stallion came running.

"What do you desire of me?"

"Carry me as you will, just as long as we break down the ceiling at the
marriage house and return, dragging White Polyanin by the forelock!"

"Sit on me. Look into my left ear and look out my right!"  The auburn
stallion carried him powerfully. First, Dogson ripped the ceiling from the
house. As he was leaving, he grabbed White Polyanin by the forelock, rode
high in the air, and then threw him to the ground. White Polyanin shattered
into pieces.

Ivan Dogson lowered himself to the ground, and then he embraced and kissed his
bride. Ivans Kingson and Chefson rejoiced to see him. They all married the
wonderful princesses, and began to live together in wealth and happiness.

