


Shall I amuse you with a little tale? It's a wonderful tale. There are
marvelous marvels, wondrous wonders, and the laborer Shabarsha, Shabarsha who
is a rogue among rogues: oh, well, in for a penny, in for a pound! So
Shabarsha set off to work as a laborer, and times were bad. There was no grain
at all, and the vegetables didn't grow. But one owner thought, a deep thought.
How could he chase away his misery, what could he live on, where could he get
some money? "Don't worry about it," said Shabarsha to him. "There'll come a
day and there will be both grain and money!" And Shabarsha set off for the
millpond. "At any rate I can catch some fish. I'll sell them and I'll have
some money. But I've no line and no hook. Wait a minute and I'll make one." He
asked the miller for a handful of hemp, sat down on the shore, and started
weaving his tackle.

He wove and wove, and then a boy in a black shirt and red hat jumped out of
the water. "Grandfather! What are you doing here?" he asked.

"I'm weaving a line."

"Why?"

"I intend to cleanse this pond of all you devils by pulling you out of the
water."

"Oh, no! Wait a little. I'll go and tell grandfather." The imp dove deep down
and Shabarsha went back to his work.

"Wait a minute," he thought, "I'll play a trick on you, you cursed ones.
You'll bring me some gold and silver." And Shabarsha began digging a pit and
when he had dug it, he placed his hat with a cutout hole over it.

"Shabarsha, oh Shabarsha! Grandfather says that you and I should trade. What
will you take not to drag us out of the water?"

"Fill that hat full of gold and silver."

The imp dove back into the water. He came back and said, "Grandfather says
that you and I should first wrestle."

"What do you mean, milksop; why should I wrestle with the likes of you? You
couldn't even deal with my middle brother, Misha."

"And where is your Misha?"

"Look over there. He's resting in that ravine under a bush."

"How can I call him out?"

"Go up to him and hit him in the side. Then he'll get up of his own accord."
The imp went into the ravine, found the bear, and whacked him in the side with
his club. Misha rose up on his hind legs and grabbed the imp so that all his
bones cracked.

He forced himself out of the bear's claws and ran to the old man in the water.
"Well, grandfather," he said in his fright, "Shabarsha has a younger brother,
Misha, and he was about to wrestle with me when he cracked all my bones. What
would it have been like if I had started to wrestle Shabarsha?"

"Hmm, go and try to have a foot race with Shabarsha; we'll see who can win
that."

So the boy in the red hat once more came up to Shabarsha. He repeated his
grandfather's words and Shabarsha replied, "Why should I race with the likes
of you? My little brother, Bunny, will leave you far behind."

"And where is your little brother Bunny?"

"He's over there, lying in the grass. He wanted a rest. Go up closer to him
and touch him on the ear. Then he'll race with you." The imp ran up to Bunny,
touched him on the ear, and the hare jumped up with the imp right behind him.
"Wait, wait for me, Bunny. Let me come up even with you. Oh, you've got away!"

"Well, grandfather," he said to the water spirit, "I tore after him running.
But how? He wouldn't let me catch up to him and he wasn't even Shabarsha -
just his youngest brother."

"Hmm," the old man muttered, screwing up his eyebrows. "Go to Shabarsha and
tell him to see who can whistle loudest."

"Shabarsha, Shabarsha! Grandfather orders me to see which of us can whistle
loudest."

"You whistle first." The imp whistled so loudly that Shabarsha could hardly
stand on his own two feet and the leaves started falling off the trees. "You
whistle well," said Shabarsha, "but that's not how I do it. When I whistle,
you won't stand on your feet and your ears won't be able to stand it. Lie down
on your face and cover your ears with your fingers." The imp lay face down on
the ground and stuck his fingers in his ears. Shabarsha took his club and with
all his might he whacked him on the neck and whistled. He whistled on and on.

"Oh, grandfather, grandfather! You wouldn't believe how Shabarsha whistles.
Sparks fell from my eyes and I could hardly get up from the ground, and all
the bones in my neck and spine were broken."

"Oho! You see, you're not so strong, imp. Go and take my iron club that's in
the rushes and try this: see who can throw it higher into the air."
The imp took the club, put it on his shoulder, and set off for Shabarsha.

"Well, Shabarsha, grandfather has ordered us to try one last time. Who can
throw this club higher into the air?"

"You throw it first and I'll watch."

The devil threw the club and it flew higher and higher until it was just a
black dot in the sky. They waited impatiently for it to come back to earth.
Then Shabarsha took the club - it was heavy! He stood it on the toes of one
foot, leaned on it with his palm, and began gazing at the sky. "Why don't you
throw it? What are you waiting for?" asked the imp.

"I'm waiting until that little cloud comes up, and then I'll throw this club
at it. My brother, the blacksmith, is sitting up there and he can use this
iron in his business."

"Oh, no, Shabarsha! Don't throw that club into the cloud or else grandfather
will be angry." The devil grabbed the club and dove back to his grandfather.
The grandfather heard from his grandson that Shabarsha had nearly thrown his
club out of sight and he got seriously afraid and ordered them to drag the
money out of the pool and buy him off. The imp dragged up more and more money;
he dragged out a whole lot, but the hat still wasn't full. "Well, grandfather,
that hat of Shabarsha is a marvel. I've put all your money in it, but it's
still empty. There's only that one chest of yours full of money."

"Carry it off to him quickly. Is he still weaving that line?"

"He is." Then there was nothing else to do so the imp started with the secret
chest and began filling Shabarsha's hat. He poured and poured it in, until
finally he had filled it. And since then, since that time, the laborer has
lived in glory. They invited me to come and drink mead and beer with them, but
I didn't go. The mead was bitter, some said, and the beer was cloudy. Where
did such a tale come from?

