


Once upon a time, there lived a peasant who had three sons. Two of them were smart, but the
third one was a simpleton. One time, he noticed that every day a morgen of wheat was stolen
from his field. The peasant decided to send his eldest son to guard the field. The boy tried to
stay awake, but finally he fell asleep. When he woke up, some of the wheat was gone. The
following night the second boy was sent to keep watch. He also fell asleep at dawn and when
he woke up, some of the wheat was gone. On the third night the peasant sent his dumb son to
the field. The simpleton fell asleep immediately after getting there. When he woke up the next
morning, he sat up and saw a little bird. He crawled up to it, caught it in a sack and went back to
sleep.

The following morning his older brothers came to the field, as it was their turn to keep watch.
They found the wheat untouched, but their dumb brother was asleep. They woke him up and
asked: 'How come no wheat was stolen last night?' The simpleton told them everything and
showed them the bird that was still in the sack. His brothers took it away from him and went
back home to show it to their father. At home, they told their father that their dumb brother had
been asleep when they saw him and that they had caught the bird feasting on the wheat. The
peasant took the little bird and carried it straight to the king. The king payed the peasant for the
bird, and then had it locked up in the cellar. He gave the key to his wife.

The poor bird was alone in the cellar until suddenly the little prince came up to the door. The
bird asked him in a human voice to let it out. 'How can I let you out if my mother carries the key
on a piece of string tied around her neck?' the prince asked. 'You could sneak up to her, steal
the key and let me out,' the bird said. That is what the little prince did. He went up to his mother
and while embracing her tightly, he stole the key from her and let the bird out. It turned out that
the bird was in fact Father Brass, and he said upon leaving the cellar: 'If you ever need anything,
go outside and say "please help me, Father Brass!" I will come as soon as I hear you and I will
do whatever you want.'

The following day the king invited many people to come and see the strange little bird. Many
guests came to the palace and after dinner they went down to the cellar. However, when they
opened the door, the bird was not there! The king asked his wife what had happened, because
it was she who had the key. The wife said she had not let it out. She cried and pleaded but
nobody believed her and she was sentenced to death. The wife cried and cried, until she
remembered her son's embrace. He must have stolen the key from her! She told her husband
and his guests about it. Some of the guests said he ought to be hanged, others - that he should
be drowned in a river. Others still said that he could be exiled from the kingdom wearing a pig
skin coat for his only garment. They all decided that this was the best solution. The queen cried
and cried, but seeing that her tears had no effect, she sewed some money into the pig skin coat
- no less than a hundred thousand in notes and gold - and then she led her son outside.

The little prince picked up a walking stick and went away. He walked and he cried. What was he
to do now? Suddenly he remembered the Father Brass. He climbed a hill and called out: 'Father
Brass! Help me!' As soon as he said that, the Father Brass appeared in front of him and asked
him what he needed. The little prince told him what happened and asked for his help. The
Father Brass thought for a while and then he said: 'go across the sea to the king's palace. Ask
him to give you work as a kitchen-boy. If he agrees, soon a war will break out. Ask the cook if
you can go to that war to watch, and if he agrees, go out the gate and call me.'

The prince did as he was told. He crossed the sea and walked until he reached the palace and
saw the king strolling around the courtyard. Still wearing his pig skin coat, the little prince
approached him and begged him to let him work as a kitchen-boy. The king agreed and sent
him to the kitchen. The boy served the king for two years until finally, in the third year, the war
started. The king gathered up his troops and set out to war. When he saw that the king was
gone, the kitchen-boy asked the cook to let him go and see the war. The cook was reluctant, but
the boy gave him five roubles and he agreed. The prince went out through the gate and called
the Father Brass.

The Father Brass appeared immediately. He gave him a horse, an army uniform, a sword and a
silver apple. He said, 'You shall defeat the entire enemy army with the sword I gave you. The
king will invite you to his palace, but you shall not go. Play with this apple when you get back to
the palace and the princess will ask you for it. Give it to her if she lets you pass the night on the
threshold of her chamber. ' The prince did as he was told. He went to the war and single-
handedly defeated the enemy army. The king invited him to his palace, but the prince refused to
go.

When he arrived back home, the prince changed back into his pig skin coat and went to the
kitchen. After he had washed all the dishes, he started playing with the silver apple. The
princess came in and saw the apple. She wanted to know how much he would ask for it. 'I will
not ask for much,' said the prince. 'I only want you to let me sleep on the threshold of your
chamber.' 'I agree,' said the princess and she took the apple. After nightfall, the prince went to
the princess' chamber and passed the night on her threshold. In the morning he went back to
the kitchen.

Two years later, another war broke out. The king gathered his army and set out to fight. The
kitchen-boy signed up to go to the war once again, and then he walked out through the palace
gate and called the Father Brass. The Father Brass gave him a horse, an army uniform and a
silver apple, and he told him to give it to the princess if she agrees to let him sleep beside her
bed. Once again, the prince defeated the enemy army. The king invited him to his palace, but
the boy refused and went back home instead. He washed the dishes and then he started to turn
the apple around and to play with it. The princess came into the kitchen and once again she
asked him to sell her the apple. The prince said that he did not want any payment. He only
asked her to let him spend the night beside her bed. The princess agreed and she took the
apple. The prince went to her chamber and spent the night beside her bed. The next morning he
went back to the kitchen and did his usual work.

After three more years, a new war broke out. The king gathered his army and set out to fight.
The prince asked the cook to let him go and watch the battles. As soon as he crossed the gate,
he called the Father Brass, who appeared without delay. He gave the boy an even better horse,
a silver apple as nice and round as the sun, and he said: 'Once again you will defeat the enemy
army, but this time you will be wounded in the hand. The king shall invite you to his palace, but
you will not go. Give the apple to the princess only if she lets you spend the night in her bed.'
The prince mounted his horse and galloped off to where the two armies were fighting. There he
fought fiercely and he slew all the enemies, but one of them reached him with his sabre and
wounded him in the hand. When he saw that the prince had been wounded, the king took off his
handkerchief and applied it to the wound. He also gave the prince his ring and invited him to
rest in his palace. The prince refused, however. He spurred his horse and soon he disappeared
behind a hill. The king was very glad that he had won three wars and gained new land for his
kingdom.

When he got back home, the prince let out his horse, changed back into his pig skin coat and
went to the kitchen. 'What did you see?' they asked him there. He told them everything: how
one man single-handedly defeated the enemy army, how the king gave him his handkerchief
and his ring as keepsakes and how he invited him to the palace, but the man refused. Having
washed the dishes as usual, he started playing with the apple, which suddenly filled the whole
kitchen with light. He played with it for a while but then the princess came in and when she saw
the apple, she started to beg him to sell it to her. She said she could give him all the money he
wanted. The prince in his pig skin coat said he did not want any money, and what he really
wanted was to lie down next to the princess on her bed. The princess agreed and she told the
boy to make the bed. At nightfall, the kitchen-boy went to the princess' chamber, took off his
clothes and lay down next to her on the bed.

The next day he woke up around noon and he asked for the king to be sent to him. The king
was surprised, but he got dressed, had his carriage prepared and he rode to the palace. When
he arrived, he immediately noticed that all the guards were new, but they still let him pass
through each door until he reached the prince's chamber. As soon as he opened the door, the
prince ran up to him, greeted him, and asked him to sit down. The king recognized him as the
man who helped him at war three times, each time defeating the enemy troops. He also
recognized the kerchief on the prince's hand and the ring on his finger. The king embraced the
prince, who had helped him so much, and he led him to his daughter. But the princess had long
been in love with the prince, as he was a very good man, and she agreed to marry him at once.
During their betrothal ceremony, the prince told them about his exile - how he had to cross the
sea and how the Father Brass took care of him and gave him the silver apples.

Three weeks after the betrothal, the couple celebrated their wedding. Afterwards, they all went
to meet the prince's parents. The parents did not recognize their son, as they believed him to be
lost. They were very happy to see him again, especially his mother, who wanted to know how it
was possible for him to get where he was now. The prince told them about the Father Brass,
and how he had led him as far as the other end of the sea, and about his work as a kitchen-boy
and about the wars. He also told them about the apples and how he revealed the whole story to
the king, and how he became engaged to the princess and then married her. The prince and the
princess lived happily for many years, and then their parents died and they inherited their
kingdoms. The Father Brass accompanied them until their deaths and he helped them many
times, especially at war. They often had feasts and even I went to some of them. The honey
was probably sweet, but there was a slip 'twixt the cup and my lip.

