


In old times there was a village where a serpent frequently flew.  He had 
devoured all but one of the villagers.  

At that time a gypsy came to the village. He came at night and no matter where 
he looked, he couldn't find anyone!  He finally entered the last hut where the 
last man was sitting and crying.  

"Greetings, good man!"   

"Why are you here, gypsy?  Surely, you must be tired of life." 

"Why do you say that?"

"You see, the serpent has been coming here devouring people.  He has eaten 
everyone. He only left me alone until tomorrow morning when he will fly back 
and devour me too.  In fact, he won't spare you either!  He'll eat us both in 
one sitting!"  

"Or maybe he'll choke!  Why don't you let me sleep here tonight?  Tomorrow 
I'll see what kind of serpent this is."  So, they spent the night.
 
The next morning, a strong windstorm suddenly arose.  The hut shook when the 
serpent landed.  "Aha," said the serpent, "I've already turned a profit!  I 
left only one man, but now I have two.  Now I'll have something for lunch as 
well!"

"Do you really think you can eat us?" asked the gypsy. 

"Yes, indeed, I will eat you." 

"You lie, devilish fiend.  You will choke!"

"So then, you think you are stronger than me?"

"I should say so!  I think even you realize I have greater strength than you." 

"Well then, let's just see who's stronger between the two of us." 

"Let's!"  

The serpent grabbed a millstone.  "Look at this, gypsy!  I will crush this 
stone with only one hand." 

"Fine! I'll watch."  

The serpent grabbed the stone with the palm of his hand and squeezed it so 
tightly that it turned into fine sand - a cloud of dust arose from his fist.  

"What a wonder," said the gypsy, "but try gripping a rock so hard that water 
comes out of it.  Watch how I squeeze!"  There was a chunk of cheese curd on 
the table, the gypsy grabbed it and really gave it a squeeze.  Whey dripped 
out onto the ground.  "Well, did you see that?  So who's stronger?" 

"True, your hand is stronger than my own.  Let's see who can whistle the 
loudest." 

"Well, whistle!"  

The serpent whistled so loudly that leaves fell from all the trees.  

"You whistle very well, brother, but still not as well as I," said the gypsy. 
"First, you had better protect your eyeballs, or else they'll pop right out of 
your head!"  

The serpent believed it and covered his eyes with a scarf.  "Okay, go ahead 
and whistle."  

The gypsy grabbed a club and as he whistled he thumped the serpent, who yelled 
at the top of his voice, "That's enough!  That's enough, gypsy!  Don't whistle 
anymore!  In one go, my eyes have almost come right out."

"Alright, however, I am quite prepared to whistle some more."  

"No, no, you don't need to do that.  I don't want to argue with you anymore.  
Better yet, let's become brothers.  You be the older brother, and I'll be the 
younger." 

"Agreed!"
 
"Well, brother," said the serpent, "if you please, out there in the meadow a 
herd of oxen is grazing.  Pick out the fattest, grab it by the tail and drag 
it back for lunch."  

There was nothing to be done - the gypsy went to the meadow.  He saw a large 
herd of oxen grazing.  He started to tie them together by their tails. The 
serpent waited and waited and couldn't wait any longer.  He ran out to the 
meadow to see what was going on. 

"What is taking so long?" 

"Just wait a little longer.  I'm tying together around fifty of these.  Then 
in one trip I can drag them all back home so that we'll have enough for a 
whole month!" 

"Oh, you! Why do we need to spend our whole lives here?  One is enough."  Then 
the serpent grabbed the biggest oxen by the tale, ripped off the hide, 
shouldered the meat and dragged it home.

"Brother, what about all the animals I tied together?  We're not going to just 
leave them?"

"Forget them."
 
They returned to the hut, and set up two cauldrons for the beef, but there was 
no water.  "Here, take this ox-hide," said the serpent to the gypsy, "if you 
please, fill this up with water and carry it back here.  We'll start boiling 
our lunch."  

The gypsy grabbed the hide and dragged it to the well.  Completely empty he 
could barely drag it, to say nothing of it when filled with water.  He got to 
the well and started to dig a deep trench around it.  The serpent again waited 
and waited and couldn't wait any longer.  He ran out to see for himself what 
was taking so long.

"What are you doing, brother?" 

"I want to dig all the way around the well and then drag the whole well back 
to the hut, so that you won't have to go out for water anymore." 

"Oh, you!  You're trying to do too much.  To dig out the well would take a 
long time."  The serpent dropped the hide into the well, filled it with water, 
dragged it out and carried it home.  

"Brother," he said to the gypsy, "go into the forest.  Choose a dry oak and 
pull it to the hut.  It's time to start a fire!"  

The gypsy went into the forest and pulled out bark fiber to twist into a rope.  
He braided an extremely long rope and set to wrapping up the oak trees.  The 
serpent waited and waited and couldn't wait any longer.  He ran out to see for 
himself what was taking so long.

"Why are you dilly-dallying?" 

"Well, I want to bring in twenty oaks at once by tying them together and then 
dragging them in, roots and all, so that you will have firewood for a long 
time!" 

"Oh, you!  You do everything your own way," said the serpent, then he ripped 
out the widest oak with its roots and dragged it to the hut.
 
The gypsy pretended like he was extremely angry.  Pouting, he sat silently.  
The serpent cooked the beef, and called the gypsy to lunch.  But the gypsy 
fervently replied, "I don't want to!" 

And so the serpent scarfed a whole ox, drank a whole oxen-skin of water and 
then questioned the gypsy, "Tell me, brother, why are you upset?" 

"Because whatever I do, it's just not right.  It's not how you like it done!"

"Well, don't be angry.  Let's make peace!" 

"If you want to make peace with me, then visit me as my guest." 

"Please, I'm ready now, brother!"  Right away, the serpent got his wagon, 
harnessed three of the best stallions, and they left together for the gypsy 
camp. 
 
They were just approaching, when the little gypsy children saw their father.  
Barely dressed, they ran to meet him.  At the top of their voices they 
exclaimed, "Father has arrived!  He brought a serpent!"  

The serpent became frightened and asked the gypsy, "Who are they?" 

"Those are my children!  I suppose they are hungry right now.  Look how 
greedily they are coming for you."  

The serpent jumped out of the wagon and ran away.  

The gypsy sold the trio of horses with the wagon and began to live the good 
life.


