


This soldier got permission to go on leave. He got ready and set off along the
way. He walked and walked, but nowhere did he see any water and he wanted to
wet his hardtack and eat a little along the way and road. His belly had long
since been empty. There was nothing to be done and so he dragged himself on a
bit further. Then he looked and saw a creek running. He went up to this creek
and got three biscuits out of his pack and put them in the water. Besides  the
hardtack the soldier had this fiddle. In his free time he played various songs
to chase away his boredom. So the soldier sat down next to the stream and
began playing. Suddenly out of nowhere the Unclean One with the appearance of
an old man came up to him with a book in his hands. "Greetings, mister
soldier!"

"Good health to you, my good man!" The devil wrinkled up his face when
the soldier addressed him as "My good man!"

"Listen, my friend: let's do a trade. I'll give you my book and you give me
your fiddle."

"Oh, old man, why do I need your book? I've served his majesty for ten
years but I've never been able to read or write. I didn't know how before and
now it's too late to learn."

"Never mind, soldier, this is the sort of book that whoever looks at it will
be able to read."

"Alright, give it to me and I'll try."

The soldier opened up the book and started reading, just as if he had done so
from his early years. He was delighted and immediately handed over his fiddle.
The Unclean One took it and began working at it with the bow, but no way did
things go right! He couldn't make it play anything at all. "Listen, brother,"
he said to the soldier, "Let me stay as your guest for a couple of days and
you teach me how to play this fiddle. I'll be very grateful."

"No, old man," the soldier answered, "I have to go on home and in three days
I'll be far, far away."

"Please, soldier, if you'll stay and teach me to play this fiddle, I'll get
you home in a single day - by a postal troika I'll drive you right there." The
soldier sat and thought: should he stay or not? He took the hardtack out of
the stream as he wanted to eat something. "Oh, brother soldier," said the
Unclean One. "That's really awful stuff you've got there. Eat with me!" He
opened his sack and got some white bread, some roast beef and vodka, and all
sorts of other things: "Eat it, I don't want to."

The soldier ate and drank his fill and then he agreed to stay on and teach
this unknown old man how to play the fiddle. He stayed with him for three days
and then he asked to go home. The devil led him outside and there before the
porch stood a troika of fine horses. "Get in, soldier! I'll get you there in
an instant!" The soldier got in the cart and they started the horses and so he
went home - and how many versts flashed by his eyes! He got there in nothing
flat. "But will you recognize the village?" asked the Unclean One.
"How could I not know it!" the soldier replied. "I was born in this village
and I grew up here."

"Well, farewell." The soldier got down from the cart, went in to his relatives,
and they all exchanged greetings and asked about each other, for how long and
when he had been given leave, It seemed to him that he had been with the
Unclean One for no more than three days but in fact it had been three years.
His leave had long since finished and he was considered a runaway in his
regiment.

The soldier became timid. He didn't know what to do. His stupidity simply
wouldn't leave him. He went outside and thought, "Now where am I to go? If I
go back to the regiment, they'll run me through the gauntlet. Oh, Unclean One,
you've played a nasty trick on me." He had no sooner spoken these words than
the Unclean One was there. "Don't be so sad, soldier! Stay with me; your
service in the regiment wasn't much to brag about. They gave you dry biscuits
to eat and they beat you with sticks. I'll make you happy - Do you want me to
make you a merchant?"

"Alright, that would be fine. Merchants live well and I'd like to try
happiness." The Unclean One made him a merchant and gave him a large shop in
the capital city with all sorts of valuable goods and he said. "Well, goodbye,
brother. I'll be going beyond the thrice-nine land into the thrice-ten land.
The king there has a splendid daughter, Princess Maria . I'm going to torment
her."

So our merchant lived and worried about nothing. Happiness just tumbled onto
his household. And in his trading he had just one task: to become even more
prosperous. The other merchants became envious, however. "Let's ask him what
sort of person he is, where he came from, and does he know how to trade here?
Why, he's taken all our trade away - let him have nothing for a while!"

So they went to him and questioned him, and he replied to them: "My brothers,
now I've got so much business that I've no time to discuss this with you. Come
tomorrow and you'll find out everything." The merchants went their separate
ways to their own homes. The soldier thought: what should he do? How should he
answer them? He thought and thought and then he decided to leave his shop and
go out of the town that very night. So he took all his money that was to hand
and set out for the thrice-ten kingdom.

He walked and walked until he came to a barrier. "Who are you?" asked the
sentry.

"I am a doctor and I'm coming to your tsardom because the daughter of your
king is ill and I want to cure her," he answered. The sentry reported this to
the courtiers and the courtiers reported this to the king himself.

The king called in the soldier. "If you cure my daughter, I'll marry you to
her."

"Your majesty, just give me three decks of cards, three bottles of sweet wine,
three bottles of strong spirits, three pounds of nuts, three pounds of bullets,
and three bundles of strong wax candles."

"Good, all will be ready." The soldier waited until evening, bought himself a
fiddle, and set off to the princess's. In her rooms he lit the candles and
began drinking and carousing, and playing on his fiddle. At midnight the
Unclean One came, heard the music, and rushed to the soldier. "Greetings,
brother."

"Greetings."

"What are you drinking?"

"I'm sipping a little kvass."

"Give me some."

"Certainly." But he brought him a full glass of the strong spirits. The devil
drank it all and his eyes popped right out on his forehead. "Oh, that's strong
stuff you've got. Let me have a bite to eat."

"Here are some nuts, take them and eat," the soldier said, but he gave him
some bullets. The devil chewed and chewed, but he just broke his teeth. Then
they started playing cards.

Meanwhile, time passed, the cocks crowed, and the Unclean One disappeared. The
king asked the princess. "How did you sleep last night?"

"Peacefully, thanks be to God!"

The next night passed the same way. But on the third night the soldier asked
the king: "Your majesty, order them to make some pincers weighing fifty pounds
and three brass rods, three iron ones, and three lead ones."

"Good, all will be ready."

At deepest midnight the Unclean One appeared. "Greetings, soldier. I've
come to carouse with you again."

"Greetings! Who isn't happy with a cheerful companion!" They started drinking
and carousing.

The Unclean One saw the pincers and asked, "What is that?"

"Well, you see, the king has taken me into his service and ordered me to teach
some musicians to play the fiddle. But all their fingers are crooked, no
better than yours, and so I've got to straighten them out in these pincers."

"Oh, brother," asked the Unclean One, "Couldn't you straighten out my
fingers? I still don't know how to play the fiddle."

"And why not? Put your fingers just here." The devil put both hands in the
pincers and the soldier squeezed them. Then he picked up the rods and let the
devil have it! He beat him and repeated, "This is for your merchant's work!"

The devil pleaded, the devil begged, "Let me go, please! I'll never come
within thirty versts of the palace again!" But he kept on flogging him. The
devil hopped and hopped. He twisted and twisted. With all his might he broke
loose and said to the soldier, "Even if you marry the princess, you won't get
out of my hands. Once you go beyond the thirty versts, I'll grab you!" When he
had said this, he disappeared.

So the soldier married the princess and lived with her in love and harmony,
and then after several years the king died and he began ruling the entire
tsardom. Once the new king and his wife went into the garden to walk. "Oh,
what a lovely garden," he said.

"This isn't much of a garden," said the princess. "Just outside the town,
about thirty versts from here, there is one to fall in love with."

The king got ready and drove there with the queen. When he had stepped down
from the carriage, the Unclean One came up and said. "Why have you come? Have
you perhaps forgotten what you were told? Well, brother, you are at fault
yourself. Now you'll never get out of my claws." What was he to do? "That is
clearly my fate. Let me say farewell to my young wife."

"Say goodbye then, but hurry!"

