


There was a soldier sent to distant lands. He served his term, received an 
honorable discharge and set off to his homeland. He walked through many lands 
and through several kingdoms. Eventually he came to one capital where he 
stopped at the apartment of a poor, old woman. 

He asked her, "How is everything, grandmother, in this kingdom?  Is everything 
going well?"

"If only, soldier! Our king has a beautiful daughter, Princess Martha. A 
foreign prince tried to woo her in marriage, but the princess didn't want to 
marry him. So he set an evil spirit on her. She's already been ill for three 
years! The evil spirit doesn't give her any peace at night. Her heart beats 
quickly and she screams out of control, and although the king has consulted 
wizards and wise-men - nobody can heal her!"
 
The soldier listened to her story and thought to himself, "I shall go and try 
my fortune. Maybe I'll be able to save the princess! The king will at least 
give me something for the road." 

He grabbed his overcoat, cleaned the buttons with chalk, put it on and marched 
to the palace.  A lady-in-waiting saw him. She guessed as to why he came, so 
she grabbed his arm and led him straight to the king. 

"Hello, soldier! What good news do you have?" said the king. 

"I wish you good health, your royal majesty! I heard that your daughter, 
Princess Martha, is ill. I can heal her." 

"Good, brother! If you heal her I will cover you with gold from head to toe." 

"Your majesty, command that everything I ask for is given to me." 

"Speak. What do you need?" 

"Give me a measure of cast-iron bullets, a measure of walnuts, a pound of 
candles, and two decks of cards. Also make me an iron rod, an iron rake with 
five prongs and a spring-loaded iron man." 

"Well, okay. Everything will be ready by tomorrow."
 
They prepared everything as necessary. The soldier locked all the windows and 
doors in the palace and made the sign of the orthodox cross over them. He left 
only one door unlocked. He stood watch near that door. He illuminated the room 
with candles and placed the cards on the table while he poured the iron 
bullets and walnuts into his pockets. After he finished making everything 
ready, he waited. 

Suddenly, right at midnight, up flew the evil spirit. But he couldn't get in! 
He flew all around the palace and only then found the open door. He turned 
into a man and entered. 

"Who goes there?" yelled the soldier. 

"Let me through, soldier! I'm a chamber servant."

"Where have you, infidel, been roaming up until now?"

"Where I was doesn't exist anymore! Would you give me some nuts to chew on?" 

"There are so many of you infidels about! If I give everyone of you a nut, 
then I'll have none left for myself."

"Please give me some!"

"Well, here you go!" and gave him a bullet.
 
The devil put the bullet into his mouth, chewed and chewed and crunched it 
down to a little patty. The devil tried to swallow it but couldn't.  While he 
was belaboring with the iron bullet, the soldier chewed and ate over twenty 
nuts. 

"Hey, soldier," said the devil, "you have strong teeth!" 

"I can see that you're a fool," answered the soldier. "I have served the king 
twenty-five years and ground my teeth down on the hardtack. You should have 
seen what kind of chap I was in my younger years!"

"Let's play cards, soldier."

"And what should we play for?" 

"For money, of course." 

"Oh you, fiend! Well, what kind of money does a soldier have? All he has is a 
stipend. He receives just three coins for a whole day. He needs to buy soap, 
shoe polish, chalk, and glue. And he needs to go to the bathhouse. How about 
the loser gets punched by the winner?"

"Sure!" So they started to play for punches. The devil lost three times to the 
soldier. 

"Let's begin," said the soldier. "I'll punch you now!"

"Wait until you have ten, then you can use your punches. There's no point in 
sullying your hand over three punches." 

"Fine!" 

They continued to play. The soldier was dealt three cards of one suit - 
bringing his tally of owed punches to ten. 

"Well, now," he said to the devil, "show me your forehead. I'm going to show 
you what it's like to play for punches with your brother! I'll cut you down 
soldier-style! You'll rue the day!"
 
The devil implored the soldier, asking him to only beat him softly. 

"Now, now, with you infidels, give you an inch and you'll walk all over us. As 
soon as you have to pay up you don't want to play. I cannot possibly be 
merciful. I am a soldier, and I made an oath to always act honorably." 

"Soldier, take money!" 

"And what would I do with money? I played for punches and so pay with punches. 
But, perhaps we could do this - I have a younger brother. Let's go to him. 
He'll hit you much softer than I. But, if you don't want to, then I'll hit you 
myself!" 

"No, soldier, it's better to take me to your younger brother."
 
The soldier led the evil one to the iron man. He triggered the spring and 
whacked the devil in the forehead. He was knocked to the other side of the 
room. Then the soldier grabbed him by the arm, "Wait here! I still owe you 
nine more punches." 

He set the spring flying again and knocked the devil so hard that he rolled 
head-over-heels almost breaking through the wall! The third time it knocked 
the evil one straight into the window. He smashed out the frame, jumped out 
and took to his heels.

"Remember, cursed," yelled the soldier, "you still have seven punches coming 
to you!" 

But the devil fled, leaving only his tracks behind him. 

In the morning the king asked Princess Martha, "Well, how was your rest last 
night?"

"Peaceful, father!"
 
The next night, Satan sent a different devil to the palace. They came to scare 
and torment the princess by turn. For this one the soldier still had nuts 
leftover! Over the course of thirteen nights, thirteen devils got into a 
scrape with the soldier. They all had an equally rough time. Not one wanted to 
come again. 

"Well, grandchildren," said Satan, "I, myself, will go now." 

Satan came to the palace to chat with the soldier about one thing or another. 
They started playing cards. The soldier beat him and led him to his younger 
brother to oblige him with wallops. When they got there, the soldier set the 
springs, and the younger brother grasped Satan with his iron arms so tightly 
that Satan couldn't budge backward or forward. The soldier grabbed the iron 
bar and started to beat Satan. 

As he struck Satan he said, "Here's for the cards! Here's for tormenting 
Princess Martha!" 

He wore out the iron rod so he grabbed the rake. Satan bellowed at the top of 
his lungs while the soldier raked him over according to his will. He did the 
job so thoroughly that when Satan finally broke free he fled in terror without 
even looking back. 

Satan returned to his swamp and groaned, "Augh, grandchildren, that soldier 
almost beat me to death!"

"Now, grandfather, you see how horrible he is! It's already been two weeks 
since I was in the palace and my head is still splitting! I'm just glad it was 
his younger brother who beat me and not the soldier!"
 
So, the devils made a plan to drive that soldier out of the palace. After they 
thought and thought, they decided to buy him off with gold. They all ran 
together to make him the offer. 

Noticing their fear, the soldier yelled in a loud voice, "Hey, brother, come 
here quickly! Our debtors came back. It's time for them to receive their 
punches." 

"That's enough! That's enough, soldier! We came to negotiate with you. Take as 
much gold from us as you want, only leave the palace!" 

"No! What is gold to me? If you want to pay your debt, then you all must climb 
into this knapsack. I've heard that evil spirits are excruciatingly tricky. 
Even if they are in a tiny crevice, they can still get out! Seriously, if you 
do this, on my word, I'll leave the palace!" 

The devils rejoiced. "Well, soldier, open up your knapsack." 

The soldier opened it, and they all climbed right in with Satan lying on top. 
"Pack in tighter," said the soldier, "so that I can close all the buckles." 

"Buckle? You don't need to do that!" 

"You'll be happy if I can completely fasten it! If not, then - don't get upset 
- I won't leave the palace for anything!" 

And so the soldier fastened every buckle on the knapsack, he crossed himself, 
put the knapsack on his back and went to the king. 

"Your royal majesty! Order thirty iron hammers to be made. Each hammer must 
weigh 100 pounds apiece." 

The king gave the command. Thirty hammers were made immediately. The soldier 
brought the knapsack to the smithy, laid it on the anvil and ordered it to be 
pounded as hard as possible. It became awful for the devils. It was impossible 
for them to crawl out! The soldier certainly fooled them! 

"That's enough!" He threw the knapsack onto his shoulders and appeared before 
the king to report, "My service here is done. No evil spirits will further 
disturb the princess."
 
The king thanked him, "Excellent job, soldier! Wander through all the inns and 
taverns, demand anything your heart desires. You can have anything you want!" 

The king assigned a scribe to follow the soldier to keep track of the state's 
bill. And so, he wandered and wandered. He wandered for a whole month and then 
returned to the king. 

"Well, soldier, did you have your fill?" 

"I had my fill, your majesty! I want to go home." 

"What are you saying? Stay with us. I'll make you my right-hand man." 

"No, sovereign, I would like to see my family."

"Well, go with God!" said the king. He gave him a carriage, horses and more 
than enough money for a whole lifetime.
 
The soldier left for his homeland. He came along a road to a certain village 
and saw a familiar soldier - they had served in the same regiment. 

"Hello, brother!" 

"Hello!"

"How do you fare? What's new?" 

"Everything is the same." 

"Well, the Lord has given me great happiness. I've suddenly become very rich! 
We should toast to this joy. Run, brother, and buy a cooler of wine." 

"I'd be happy to fetch one, but, as you see, my livestock is still not 
gathered. You'll have to go to the trouble and get it yourself.  The tavern is 
right there, not too far!" 

"Fine. You, take my knapsack. Set it in the hut and warn the women to not 
touch it!" 

Our soldier went off to get wine while his countryman brought the knapsack 
into the hut and warned the women, "Don't touch it!" 

While he gathered his livestock the women couldn't be patient, "Let's take a 
look. What is stuffed into this knapsack?" 

They unfastened it. Out skipped the devils with a clamor and a crash. They 
knocked the doors from the hinges and ran! Along the road they met the soldier 
with the wine. 

"Augh, you cursed ones! Who let you out?" 

The devils were so scared when they saw him, they threw themselves into the 
cavity below the mill and there they stayed forever. 

The soldier returned to the hut, thoroughly scolded the women and then went on 
a walk with his old comrade. Later, he arrived home and began to live a 
wealthy and happy life.

