


Once upon a time there lived an old man with his old wife. They had three sons
- Egorushko the Nimble, Mishka the Bandy-legged, and Ivashko Lie-on-the-Stove.
Their father and mother wanted to marry them off. They sent their eldest son
to find a bride for himself. He walked and walked for a long time; wherever he
looked at the girls, he could not choose a bride for himself, because none was
to his liking.

Then he met a three-headed dragon on the road and was frightened. The dragon
said to him: "Where are you going, my good fellow?" Egorushko answered: "I
have set out to get married, but I cannot find a bride." The dragon said:
"Come with me; I will lead you. We shall see whether you can get a bride."
They walked and walked, until they came to a big stone. The dragon said: "Turn
up the stone; there you will get what you wish." Egorushko tried to turn it up,
but could not move it. The dragon said to him: "There is no bride for you!"
Egorushko returned home and told his father and mother what had happened.

Again the father and mother pondered over what they should do, and then sent
their middle son, Mishka the Bandy-legged, to find a bride. The same thing
happened to him. The old man and his old wife thought and thought and wondered
what to do; for if they sent Ivashko Lie-on-the-Stove, he surely would not
accomplish anything!

However, Ivashko Lie-on-the-Stove began to beg for a chance to have a look at
the dragon. His father and mother at first would not let him go, but later
they consented. Ivashko too walked and walked, and met the three-headed dragon.
The dragon asked him: "Whither are you going, my good fellow?" Ivashko
answered: "My brothers wanted to get married but could not find a bride; now
it is my turn." "Come with me, then; I will show you whether you can get a
bride." And so the dragon went along with Ivashko and they came to the same
stone, and the dragon told him to turn up the stone from its place. Ivashko
took hold of it, and the stone rolled off. There was a hole in the ground, and
near it some thongs were fixed. The dragon said: "Ivashko, sit on the thongs;
I will lower you, then you will come to three kingdoms, and in each of them
you will see a maiden."

Ivashko was lowered, and started on his way. He walked and walked, until he
came to the copper kingdom. He entered it and saw a beautiful maiden. She
said: "Welcome, rare guest! Come in and sit down where you see a smooth place,
and tell me whence you come and whither you are going." "Ah, fair maiden,"
said Ivashko, "you have not given me food nor drink, yet you ask me
questions." The maiden placed all sorts of food and drink on the table;
Ivashko ate and drank and told her that he was seeking a bride for himself.
"And if I find favor with you," he said, "please be my wife." "No, my good
man," said the maiden. "Travel on still farther. Then you will come to the
silver kingdom; there lives a maiden even more beautiful than I." And she gave
him a silver ring. The gallant youth thanked the maiden for her hospitality,
said farewell to her, and went on.

He walked and walked and came to the silver kingdom. He entered it and saw a
maiden even more beautiful than the first. He asked a blessing and made
obeisance: "I salute you, fair maiden!" She answered: "Welcome, strange youth!
Sit down and boast about who you are, and whence and for what business you
have come here." "Ah, fair maiden," said Ivashko, "you have not given me food
nor drink, yet you are asking me questions." The maiden set the table and
brought all kinds of food and drink; Ivashko ate and drank as much as he
wanted, then told her that he had set out to find a bride and asked her to be
his wife. She said to him: "Go on still farther; beyond there is a golden
kingdom, and in it lives a maiden even more beautiful than I." And she gave
him a golden ring. Ivashko said farewell to her and went on.

He walked and walked, and came to the golden kingdom. He entered it and saw a
maiden more beautiful than the others. So he asked a blessing and saluted the
maiden, as is becoming. The maiden began to ask him whence he came and whither
he was going. "Ah, fair maiden," said he, "you have not given me food nor
drink, yet you ask me questions." So she put all kinds of food and drink on
the table, the best imaginable. Ivashko Lie-on-the-Stove treated himself amply
to everything, and began to tell his story: "I am on my way to find a bride.
If you wish to be my wife, come with me." The maiden consented, and gave him a
golden ball. They set out together. They walked and walked, and came to the
silver kingdom; there they took the maiden with them; and again they walked
and walked, and came to the copper kingdom; there, too, they took the maiden.
Then all of them went to the hole from which they had to climb out, and they
found the thongs hanging there. And the elder brothers were already standing
by the hole, about to climb into it to find Ivashko.

Now Ivashko seated the maiden from the copper kingdom on the thongs and shook
them; the brothers pulled and lifted out the maiden, and lowered the thongs
again. Then Ivashko seated the maiden from the silver kingdom, and the
brothers pulled her out, and sent down the thongs. Finally he seated the
maiden from the golden kingdom, and the brothers pulled her out too, and
dropped back the thongs. Ivashko now seated himself on them; his brothers
pulled him too, pulled and pulled, but when they saw that it was Ivashko they
thought: "If we pull him out he might refuse to give us a maiden." And they
cut the thongs, and Ivashko fell down. Well, there was nothing he could do; he
wept and wept, and then went on. He walked and walked, and this is what he
saw. On a tree trunk sat an old man as big as an inch, with a beard a cubit
long. Ivashko told him everything that had happened to him, and how. The old
man instructed him to go farther. "You will come to a little house," he said,
"and in the house there lies a man so tall that he stretches from corner to
corner, and you must ask him how to get to Russia."

So Ivashko walked and walked, and came to the little house; he entered it and
said: "Mighty giant, do not kill me. Tell me how to get to Russia." "Fie,
fie!" said the giant. "No one asked these Russian bones to come here; they
have come by themselves. Well, go beyond thirty lakes. There a little house
stands on a chicken leg, and in the house lives Baba Yaga. She has an eagle,
and he will take you out."

The good youth walked and walked, and came to the little house. He entered it,
and Baba Yaga cried: "Fie, fie, fie! Russian bones, why have you come here?"
Then Ivashko said: "Little grandmother, I came by order of the mighty giant to
ask for your powerful eagle, that he might take me up to Russia." "Go to the
garden," said Baba Yaga. "At the gate there stands a sentry. Take the keys
from him and go beyond seven doors. As you open the last door, the eagle will
flutter his wings, and if you are not frightened by him, sit on him and fly.
Only take some meat with you, and each time he looks back, give him a piece."
Ivashko did as Baba Yaga told him. He sat on the eagle and off they flew. They
flew and flew; the eagle looked back, and Ivashko gave him a piece of meat.
They flew and flew, and he gave meat to the eagle often; and now he had given
the eagle all the meat he bad, and there was still a long distance to fly. The
eagle looked back, and there was no meat; so the eagle plucked a piece of
flesh from Ivashko's shoulder, ate it, and dragged him out through the same
hole to Russia. When Ivashko got down off the eagle, the eagle spat out the
piece of flesh and told him to put it back into his shoulder. Ivashko did so,
and his shoulder healed. He came home, took the maiden of the golden kingdom
from his brothers, and they began to live happily together and are still
living. I was at their wedding and drank beer. The beer ran along my mustache
but did not go into my mouth.

