




In a certain kingdom, in a certain land, there lived a king and queen. They
didn't have any children. They prayed God would give them a child to enjoy in
their youth who would take care of them in their old age. That night they
prayed, went to bed and fell into a deep sleep.

In their sleep, they saw a quiet pond not far from the palace. In that pond a
golden-finned ruffe swam. If the queen ate the fish, she would instantly
become pregnant. The king and queen awoke and called the nurses and
nursemaids to tell them about their dream.  The nurses and nursemaids reasoned
thus: since they saw it in a dream, then it can be a reality.

The king called his fishermen and desperately ordered them to catch the
golden-finned ruffe. At sunrise, the fishermen arrived at the quiet pond and
cast out their nets. To their delight, they caught the golden-finned ruffe on
their very first attempt. They reeled it in and brought it to the palace. When
the queen saw the fish, she couldn't stay in her chair any longer. She ran to the
fishermen, grabbed them by the hands, and rewarded them handsomely.
Afterward, she summoned her favorite cook and personally handed her the
golden-finned ruffe, "Here. Prepare this for lunch. Make sure that nobody
else touches it."

The cook gutted the ruffe, washed it and cooked it. She threw the swill out
into the yard, in which was a cow that licked up the swill. Meanwhile, the
queen ate the fish as the cook licked off the dishes. Suddenly, they all
became pregnant: the queen, her favorite cook, and the cow. They all gave
birth at the same moment to three sons - the queen had Ivan-kingson, the cook
had Ivan-cookson, and the cow had Ivan-bullson.

These boys grew not by the day but by the hour. Like good dough rising on a
board they grew. All three goodly youths looked identical such that it was impossible
to tell who was the king's son, who was the cook's and who was the cow's. The
only way to tell them apart was this: as soon as they returned from a stroll,
Ivan-kingson asked for his laundry to be changed, Ivan-cookson looked for
something to eat, while Ivan-bullson immediately layed down to rest.

In their tenth year they came to the king and said, "Our beloved father! Make
us an iron rod that weighs one ton."

The king ordered his smiths to make an iron rod that weighed 2,000 pounds. It
took the smiths an entire week to finish their work. Nobody could even lift
one end of the rod, but Ivan-kingson and Ivan-cookson and Ivan-bullson were
able to spin the rod with their fingers as if it were only a goose feather.

They walked out onto the wide palace grounds. "Well, brothers," said Ivan-
kingson, "let's try our strength to see who should be the eldest brother."

"Fine," answered Ivan-bullson. "Take the rod and beat us on the shoulders."

Ivan-kingson took the iron rod, and struck Ivan-cookson and Ivan-bullson on
their shoulders. He pounded one and then the other into the ground up to
their knees. Then, Ivan-cookson pounded both Ivan-kingson and Ivan-bullson
into the ground all the way up to their chests. Then Ivan-bullson struck,
pounding both brothers into the ground all the way up to their throats.

"Let us," said Ivan-kingson, "test our strength some more. We will throw the
iron rod up into the air. Whoever throws it the highest will be the eldest
brother."

"Well then, you throw first."

Ivan-kingson threw first. The rod fell back to the earth after a quarter of
an hour being in the air. Then Ivan-cookson threw. The rod fell back after
a half an hour. Then Ivan-bullson threw. Only after a full hour did it come
back down.

"Well, Ivan-bullson, be our eldest brother."

After that, they left to stroll in the garden where they found an enormous
stone. "Whoa, check out that rock! Do you think we can move it?" said Ivan-
kingson, who subsequently tried and tried to move it with his arms, but
didn't have the strength to do so. Ivan-cookson tried as well and could only
just barely move the stone.

Ivan-bullson said to them, "Milksops! Wait a moment while I give it a try."
As soon as he came up and touched the stone with his leg, it shook and flew to
the other side of the garden, breaking through several trees. Underneath the
stone, they found an underground chamber. In the underground chamber there were
three mighty stallions. Battle harnesses were hanging on the walls. Here were
worthy animals for these good youths to ride!

Immediately they sent off to petition the king, "Sovereign father, bless us on
our travels to foreign lands where we hope to gain experience and to prove
ourselves." The king blessed them and gave them money for their journey.
They said goodbye and set off on their mighty steeds.

They rode through valleys, over mountains, and along green meadows until they
came to a deep, dark forest. In that forest, there stood a little hut on
chicken legs with ram horns. Whenever it needed to, it could turn about.

"Little hut, little hut, turn about to face us with your back to the forest.
We want to climb in. Feed us with your bread and salt." The little hut turned
around. The goodly youths entered the little hut. On the stove Baba Yaga the
Bony Legged was lying from corner to corner with her nose against the ceiling.


"Phewy, phewy, phewy. Earlier a Russian soul was never heard nor seen. Now a
Russian soul will sit on a spoon and roll itself right into my mouth."

"Hey, old woman, don't talk nonsense. Please climb down from the stove and
sit on this bench. Ask us where we are going. I'll willingly tell you."

Baba Yaga climbed down from the stove, walked right up to Ivan-bullson and
bowed to him deeply, "Greetings, good friend, Ivan-bullson! Where are you
going? By which way are you headed?"

"We are going, grandmother, to Wineberry River, to the Arrowwood bridge. I
heard that dragons, the chuda-yuda, live there."

"Oh, yes, Vanyusha! That's grabbing the bull by the horns! They sure are
villains. They rob everyone and take them into captivity. They sent the
nearby kingdoms rolling away like a ball."

The brothers spent that night at Baba Yaga's. In the morning they arose early
and left on their way. They came to Wineberry River where all along the bank lay
human bones knee deep! They entered a little hut. It was empty
so they decided to stay there. Evening came. Ivan-bullson said, "Brothers,
we've come far away into a strange land. We must be careful. Let's take
turns standing watch." They drew straws. Ivan-kingson was to stand guard the
first night, the second went to Ivan-cookson, and the third to Ivan-bullson.

Ivan-kingson went out to watch. He climbed into some bushes and fell fast
asleep - just as Ivan-bullson expected. As soon as it was midnight Ivan-
bullson was ready. He left after grabbing his shield and sword to stand under
the Arrowwood bridge.

Suddenly, the river trembled. In the oak trees the eagles screeched. The
six-headed chuda-yuda emerged. His horse stumbled under him. The black raven
on his shoulder shuddered. In the rear, his hound bristled.

The six-headed dragon said, "What causes you, dog-meat, to stumble, you,
raven-feather, to shudder, and you, dog-fur, to bristle? Perhaps you think
that Ivan-bullson is here? Surely, the goodly youth, has not even been born
yet. If he has been born, he's probably unfit for battle. I will hold him
down with one hand and with the other I will swat him. The only thing that
will be left of him will be a puddle!"

Out hopped Ivan-bullson, "Don't boast, unclean power! Not having caught the
falcon to start with, it's too early to nip the feathers. Not having challenged
the goodly youth, there's no need to insult him. It would be better to prove
our strength. He who overcomes can boast."

They came together, measured one another up and struck each other so brutally
that all around the earth groaned. The dragon's luck had run out. Ivan-
bullson cut off three of his heads with the first stroke.

"Stop, Ivan-bullson! Give me a moment to rest."

"What for? You, evil one, have three heads while I only have one. We will
rest when you have only one head left."

Again, they came together and again they struck at each other. Ivan-bullson
cut off the dragon's remaining heads. He hacked the body into little pieces
and threw it into the Wineberry River. He put the six heads under the
Arrowwood bridge and returned to the little hut.

In the morning, Ivan-kingson came in. "Well, did you see anything?"

"No, brothers, not even a fly flew by me."

The next night, Ivan-cookson went out to watch. He climbed into some bushes
and fell asleep - just as Ivan-bullson expected. As soon as it was midnight,
he immediately prepared himself. He left to stand under the Arrowwood
bridge right after grabbing his shield and sword.

Suddenly, the river trembled. In the oak trees the eagles screeched. The
nine-headed dragon emerged. His horse stumbled under him, the black raven on
his shoulder shuddered. In the rear, his hound bristled.

The dragon jabbed the steed in the ribs, the raven in the feathers, and the
dog in the ear, "What causes you, dog-meat, to stumble, you raven-feather, to
shudder, and you dog-fur to bristle? Perhaps you think Ivan-bullson is here?
Surely the goodly youth has not even been born yet. If he has been born,
he is probably unfit for battle. I will kill him with one finger!"

Out hopped Ivan-bullson, "Delay your boasting. First, pray to God, wash your hands
and then take on your task! We still do not know who will win!"

As soon as the champion waved his sharp sword once - twice, he took off six of
the unclean power's heads. He struck the dragon, forcing him knee-deep into
the boggy earth. Ivan-bullson grabbed a handful of dirt and threw it right
into his opponent's eyes. While the dragon wiped his eyes, the champion cut
off the remaining heads. He then took the body, chopped it up into little pieces
and threw it into the Wineberry River. He put the nine heads under the
Arrowwood bridge.

In the morning, Ivan-cookson came in. "Well, brother, you didn't see anything
last night?"

"No, not even one fly flew by me. Not one mosquito buzzed!"

Ivan-bullson led his brothers under the Arrowwood bridge where he showed them
the severed heads, putting them to shame. "Hey, you sleepyheads, why should
you even go to battle? It would be better for you to lie on the stove at home."

On the third night Ivan-bullson prepared for his watch. He hung a white towel
on the wall with a saucer placed below it on the floor. He said to his
brothers, "I'm going into a terrible battle. Brothers, you will need to stay
awak all night. Watch carefully to see if blood drips from this towel. If the
dish is only half-way full - things are fine. If the dish is full - everything
is still okay. But, if it overflows the edge, immediately release my mighty
steed from its chain and come quickly to help me."

And so Ivan-bullson stood under the Arrowwood bridge. It was after midnight.
The river trembled. In the oak trees the eagles screeched. The twelve-headed
dragon emerged. His steed had twelve wings, a silver hide, and a tail and
mane of gold. The dragon rode nearer. Suddenly, his horse stumbled under
him. The black raven on his shoulder shuddered. In the rear, his hound
bristled.

The dragon jabbed the steed in the ribs, the raven in the feathers, and the
dog in the ear, "What causes you, dog-meat, to stumble, you raven-feather, to
shudder, and you dog-fur to bristle? Perhaps you think Ivan-bullson is here?
Surely, the goodly youth, has not even been born yet. If he has been born,
he's probably unfit for battle. I will only breathe on him and not even his
ashes will remain!"

Out hopped Ivan-bullson, "Wait to boast! First, pray to God!"

"Ah, you're here! Why did you come?"

"To meet you, unclean power, and to try your might."

"How can you try my strength? You are a mere fly compared to me!"

Ivan-bullson answered, "I didn't come to chat, but to fight you to the death."

He took a swing with his sharp sword and cut off three of the dragon's heads.
The dragon gathered his heads, marked them with his flaming finger and
instantly all those heads grew back as if they had never fallen from their
shoulders! Things became bad for Ivan-bullson. The dragon overcame him,
pounding Ivan-bullson knee-deep into the boggy earth.

"Stop, unclean power! Kings battle and then rest. Certainly you and I aren't
going to fight without any breaks? Give me at least three breaks."

The dragon agreed. Ivan-bullson took off his right glove and threw it at the
little hut. The glove broke all the windows, but his brothers still slept,
hearing nothing.

A second time, Ivan swung his sword even harder and cut off six of the
dragon's heads. The monster gathered them up, marked them with his fiery
finger and again all the heads grew back in place. Then dragon pounded Ivan
up to his waist in the boggy ground.

The champion asked for another rest, took off his other glove and threw it at
the little hut. The glove busted through the roof, but the brothers slept on,
not hearing a thing.

For a third time, he swung his sword even harder and cut off nine of the
dragon's heads. The dragon gathered them up, marked them with his fiery
finger, and the heads again regrew. Then he drove Ivan-bullson into the boggy
earth up to his shoulders.

Ivan-bullson asked for another rest. He pulled off his hat and threw it at
the little hut.  The hat struck the little hut, which then crumbled, all of its logs
scattering. It was only this that awoke his brothers. They glanced at the blood
overflowing the dish and heard the mighty steed neighing loudly, trying to
snap through its chains. They rushed to the stable and let the horse go.
Following immediately behind him, they also rushed to help.

"Ah!" said the dragon, "You lied. You have help."

The mighty steed galloped up to the dragon and kicked him with his hoofs.
Meanwhile Ivan-bullson crawled from the ground. He sized-up the situation and
cut off the dragon's fiery finger. After which, he chopped off all the
dragon's heads. He chopped the body into small pieces and threw everything
into the Wineberry River.

His brothers came running. "Hey, you sleepyheads!" said Ivan-bullson, "because
of your sleeping I almost lost my head."

Early in the morning Ivan-bullson went into the open field. He struck the
ground and turned into a sparrow. He flew to the white-stoned palace and sat
at an open window. An old witch saw him, sprinkled some seeds and started to
speak, "Oh little sparrow! You flew to eat some seeds and to hear my sorrow.
Ivan-bullson mocks me. He destroyed all my sons-in-law."

"Don't sorrow, mother! We'll pay him back for everything," said the dragons'
wives.

"I," said the youngest, "will cause a famine. Then, near the road, I will
become an apple tree with gold and silver apples. Whoever plucks an apple
will explode."

"While I," said the middle daughter, "will cause a great drought. Then I'll
become a well with two cups floating on the top of the water - one gold and
the other silver. Whoever takes a cup, I will drown."

"While I," said the eldest, "will cause a great drowsiness and turn into a
golden bed. Whoever lies down on the bed will burn by fire."

Ivan-bullson heard all of these things, flew back, struck the ground and
turned back into a goodly youth. The three brothers then gathered up and left for
home. As they traveled along the road an intense hunger tormented them,
but there was nothing to eat. Suddenly there stood an apple tree with gold
and silver apples. Ivan-kingson and Ivan-cookson went to pluck some apples.
But Ivan-bullson galloped ahead and chopped the tree down in two strokes.
Blood gushed out of the tree! He did the same thing to the well and the
golden bed. The dragons' wives perished.

As soon as the old witch learned of this she disguised herself as a beggar.
She ran to the road and waited there with a knapsack. Along came Ivan-bullson
and his brothers. She stretched out her hand asking for alms.

Kingson said to Ivan-bullson, "Brother, our father has enough gold. Give this
poor woman a holy offering."

Ivan-bullson pulled out a ten ruble coin and gave it to the old woman. She
didn't grab a hold of the money but grabbed him by the arm. In the blink of
an eye they vanished. The brothers looked around. There was no old woman,
there was no Ivan-bullson. Out of fear they galloped home as fast as they
could go.

Meanwhile the witch dragged Ivan-bullson underground and led him to her
husband who was a very old-man. "Here you go," she said, "our scoundrel!"

The old man lay on an iron bed. With long eyelashes and thick eyebrows
completely covering his eyes, he was unable to see. He called twelve mighty
champions, and ordered them: "Please grab an iron pitchfork. Raise my black
eyebrows and lashes. I will take a peak to see what kind of bird we have here
who killed my sons." The champions raised his eyebrows and eyelashes with the
pitchfork. The old man took a glance, "Oh yes, the goodly youth, Vanyusha! So,
it was you who dared destroy my children. What am I to do with you?"

"As you please, you may do whatever you want. Go ahead. I am ready for anything."

"Well, standing around talking won't bring my children back from the dead.
It's better to be in my service. Ride to the unseen kingdom, to the unheard-of-
land and secure for me Queen Goldenlocks. I want to marry her."

Ivan-bullson thought to himself, "What do you, old devil, need to be married
for? Surely that is for me, a goodly youth!"

Meanwhile the old woman became hysterical. She hung a stone around her neck,
splashed into the water and drowned.

"Here, Vanyusha, is a club," said the old man. "Go to such-and-such oak tree.
Knock on it three times with the club and say, 'Come out, ship! Come out,
ship! Come out, ship!' As soon as the ship comes out to you, at that very
instant, command the oak tree three times to close itself up. Be sure to
remember these instructions! If you don't do this, you will greatly insult me."

Ivan-bullson came to the oak tree, struck it with the club an uncountable
number of times and ordered, "Everything inside, come out!"

The first ship exited.  Ivan-bullson sat in it and yelled, "Everyone, follow
me!" And he went on his way. Going a little distance from the tree, he glanced
behind him and saw a force of innumerable ships and boats! All praised and
blessed him.

A little old man in a boat approached him and said, "Good friend, Ivan-
bullson, may you live long and prosper! Accept me as a comrade."

"And what can you do?"

"I, dear friend, can eat bread."

Ivan-bullson said, "Poppycock! I can do that myself. However, take a seat
on the ship. I'm happy to have good companions."

Another little old man in a boat approached his boat and said, "Good health to
you, Ivan-bullson! Take me with you."

"And what can you do?"

"I, good friend, can drink wine and beer."

"That's rather a simple art! Well, anyway, climb into the boat."

Up came a third little old man, "Good health, Ivan-bullson! Take me too."

"Tell me, what can you do?"

"I, good friend, can sit in a sauna."

"Pshaw, your attitude is bold. The devil take you. My, my, you think you are
so clever!" He took that one onto his ship too.

Suddenly another boat approached. A fourth little old man said, "May you live
long and prosper, Ivan-bullson! Accept me as a comrade."

"And who are you?"

"I, good friend, am a stargazer."

"Well, there is something which I cannot do. Please, be my comrade." He
accepted the fourth.

Then a fifth little old man asked to join.

"You're almost dead. Where am I going to take you? Speak quickly. What can
you do?"

"I, good friend, can swim like a ruffe."

"Well, welcome!"

And so they left for Queen Goldenlocks. They arrived at the unseen kingdom and
the unheard-of land. There, they had already known for a long time that Ivan-
bullson was coming. For three whole months they baked bread, distilled wine,
and brewed beer. Ivan-bullson saw the innumerable cartloads of bread and just
as many barrels of wine and beer. Surprised, he asked, "What's all this
for?"

"It's all been prepared for you."

"Ridiculous! I couldn't eat or drink this much in a whole year." Suddenly,
Ivan-bullson remembered his comrades and summoned them. "Hey, you fine-old-
men! Who among you knows how to eat and drink?"

Eats-all and Drinks-all called back, "We do, good friend! This is child's
play."

"Well then, get to work!"

One old man ran up to eat the bread. He threw the bread into his mouth, not by
the loaf, but by the whole cartload. He ate everything and even yelled, "So
little bread, give me some more!"

The other old man ran up to drink the beer and wine. He drank everything -
even swallowing the barrels. "So little!" he yelled, "Give me some more!"

The servant was dismayed. She ran to the queen with the report that neither
bread nor wine remained. So Queen Goldenlocks ordered Ivan-bullson to be
taken to the sauna. The sauna had been heated for three months. It was so
red-hot that it was impossible to approach within five kilometers of it. They
asked Ivan-bullson to enter the sauna.

He saw the flames spewing from the sauna and said, "What, have you gone crazy?
I'll certainly burn up in there!" Then again, he remembered, "Surely I have my
comrades with me! Hey, you, good-old-fellows. Who among you can sit in the
sauna?"

One old man ran up to him, "I can, good friend! This is child's play." He
enthusiastically hopped into the sauna. In one corner he blew. In the other
corner he spat. The whole sauna cooled off. There was even snow in the
corners. "Oh, good friends, I'm freezing. Heat this sauna for another three
years!" yelled the old man with all his might.

The servant ran to the queen with the report that the sauna had completely
frozen over. Meanwhile, Ivan-bullson demanded that Queen Goldenlocks be given
to him. The queen personally went out to him. She gave him her white hand,
sat on the boat and left.

They sailed for two days. Suddenly, she was overcome with sadness and great
sorrow. She beat her chest, turned into a star and flew into the heavens.

"Well," said Ivan-bullson, "she's completely gone!" But then he remembered,
"Ah, surely I have comrades. Hey good-old-fellows! Who among you is the
stargazer?"

"I am, good friend! This is child's play," answered the old man. He struck the
ground, turned into a star, and flew into the heavens. He counted the stars,
found an extra star and shoved her! The star slipped out of its spot,
quickly tumbled through the heavens, fell into the boat and turned back into
Queen Goldenlocks.

Again, they sailed for two days. A sadness and longing overcame the queen. She
beat her chest, turned into a pike and swam into the sea. "Well, now she's
gone!" thought Ivan-bullson, but then remembered about the last, little old
man and began to question him, "You, can you really swim as a ruffe whenever
you like?"

"I can, good friend. It's child's play!" He struck the ground, turned into a
ruffe, and swam into the sea. When he found the pike he jabbed the water near
her. The pike hopped into the boat and once again became Queen Goldenlocks.

At this point, the little old men and Ivan-bullson parted ways. They all went
to their own homes while Ivan rode to the dragons' father with Queen
Goldenlocks. The dragons' father asked for his twelve mighty champions,
ordering them to bring an iron pitchfork to lift his black eyebrows and
eyelashes. He looked at the queen and said, "Ah, Vanyusha! That is a job
well done! I pardon you. You are free to go as you please."

"No, wait," answered Ivan-bullson, "you have not thought this through!"

"What?"

"I know of a deep chasm with a narrow board lying across it. Whoever can cross
over the little board will get to marry the queen."

"Agreed. Vanyusha, you go first."

Ivan-bullson went out onto the narrow board. As he did, Queen Goldenlocks
silently petitioned, "Oh, be lighter than a swan's feather!"

Ivan-bullson made it across safely without the narrow board breaking. Then,
the very old man went out onto the board.  As soon as he stepped into the
middle it snapped. He fell through into the chasm. Ivan-bullson took Queen
Goldenlocks to his homeland. Soon, they married and invited everyone to a
great feast.

Ivan-bullson sat at the table and boasted to his brothers, "Although I battled
for a long time, I still found a young wife! And you, brothers, only sit up
there on the stove and nibble on bricks!"

I was at that feast, I drank mead-wine, it flowed along my moustache, but
didn't go into my mouth. There they served me thus: they took away the wash
basin from the bull and poured some milk in it for me. Then they gave me a
small white loaf and sopped it into that very basin. I didn't drink, I didn't
eat, I decided to clean myself off. They fought with me. I put on a cap and
they tried to force me to eat and drink.

