


An old man and his wife lived a meager existence. Ever since their youth they 
had just barely scraped by. They had lived an entire century without bearing a 
single child. They both grew old and pined and cried because they had no one 
to care for. And so they took an onion, wrapped it in a blanket, rocked it in 
a cradle and sang it a lullaby. In the place of the wrapped onion grew a 
little son, Tereshechka, a real berry of a boy!  
 
The boy grew up and became more independent. His father made him a little 
canoe. When Tereshechka took it fishing, his mother would come to give him a 
little bit of milk and some cheese. She came to the shore and called out, 
"Tereshechka, my little son! Row, row to the shore. I, your mother, brought 
you some milk."  
 
Tereshechka heard her sweet voice from afar. He returned to the shore where he 
dumped out his catch. He ate and drank and then returned to his fishing. 
 
Once his mother told him, "Little son, my dear! Be careful. The witch, 
Chuvilikha, is stalking you. Do not fall into her grasp." She said this and 
left.  
 
Soon thereafter Chuvilikha came to the shore and called out in her frightening 
voice, "Tereshechka, my little son! Row, row to the shore. I, your mother, 
brought you some milk."   
 
But Tereshechka realized it wasn't his mother's voice and said, "Away, away my 
little canoe! This is not the sweet voice of my own mother, but of the evil 
witch, Chuvilikha."  
 
When Chuvilikha heard this, she ran to find a tinkerer from whom she bought a 
little voice for herself, just like Tereshechka's mother's voice.   
 
Tereshechka's mother returned to the shore. She called to her son with a 
delicate little voice, "Tereshechka, my little son! Row, row to the little 
bank."  
 
Tereshechka heard and said, "Closer, closer my canoe! It's the little voice of 
my own dear mother." His mother gave him something to eat and drink and again 
let him get back to his fishing. 
 
Along came the witch, Chuvilikha. She sang in the sweet little voice, which 
was just like his mother's voice. Tereshechka, thinking he recognized his 
mother's voice rowed to the bank. Chuvilikha grabbed him, quickly stuffed him 
into a sack and darted away. She hurriedly brought him to her little hut on 
chicken legs. She ordered her daughter to cook him while she, quick as 
lightning, ran out on the hunt again.  
 
Tereshechka was a young man, but not stupid. He defended himself against the 
girl. He put her into the oven to cook rather than being cooked in the oven 
himself and then climbed up into a tall oak tree. 
 
Up ran Chuvilikha. She rushed into the hut, ate and drank her fill, and went 
out into the yard. She turned and rolled about saying, "I turn about, I roll 
about having fed on Tereshechka's flesh!" 
 
He yelled at her from the oak, "Turn about, roll about, witch, having fed on 
the flesh of your own daughter!"  
 
She heard him and lifted up her head. She looked all around, but didn't see 
anyone! Again she went at it. "I turn about, I roll about, having fed on 
Tereshechka's flesh!"  
 
And he replied again, "Turn about, roll about, witch, having fed on the flesh 
of your own daughter!" 
 
This startled her. She finally saw him in the tall oak. She sprang up and 
dashed to the blacksmith. "Blacksmith, blacksmith! Forge me an axe."  
 
The blacksmith forged an axe, but said, "Don't chop with the blade; instead, 
use the blunt end."  
 
She heeded him. She pounded and pounded, chopped and chopped, but without 
result. So she fell to gnawing on the tree with her teeth. It started to 
shudder and snap.  
 
White geese came flying through the sky. Tereshechka recognized the danger he 
was in and so implored the white geese to help him: 

White geese, take me with you,
Place me on your wings,
Carry me to my father, to my mother;
There you will be richly fed.
 
In reply the white geese answered, "Honk, honk! Behind us flies a different 
flock, hungrier than we. They will take you and carry you home." Meanwhile the 
witch gnawed, splinters flew and the oak cracked and swayed. Overhead flew the 
other flock. Tereshechka again yelled: 

White geese, take me with you,
Place me on your wings,
Carry me to my father, to my mother;
There you will be richly fed.
 
"Honk, honk!" answered the geese, "behind us flies a runty gosling. He will 
pick you up and carry you home." The tree cracked and swayed, but still the 
gosling hadn't come. The witch gnawed and gnawed. She looked up at Tereshechka 
and smacked her lips before getting back to work. She had nearly attained her 
prize!  
 
Fortunately, along flew the runty gosling, fluttering its wings. Tereshechka 
begged of him,  

White goose of mine, 
Take me, 
Place me on your wings, 
And carry me home to my father, to my mother;
There you will be richly fed 
And washed with clean water.
 
The runty gosling took pity and gave Tereshechka his wing and flew away with 
him.  
 
They alighted near the window of his father's home and sat just outside on the 
grass. After the old woman made some pancakes she summoned her companions to 
the table. She said a prayer for Tereshechka, and said, "This is for you, 
guest. This is for you, dear husband. And this pancake is for me!"  
 
Then, from under the window, Tereshechka called out, "And how about for me?" 
 
"Go take a look, will you, dear husband? See who is asking for a pancake out 
there." The old man went out and saw Tereshechka. He embraced him and brought 
him in to his mother. They also embraced! 
 
And the runty gosling was well fed and nourished and was set free. From that 
time he flapped his wings wide and flew in the front of the flock while always 
holding Tereshechka's memory dear.

