


In a kingdom, in a far-away land, there lived, there were a tsar and his 
tsaritsa. They had a son, Tsarevich Ivan, who was mute from birth. One day 
when he was about twelve years old, he went to the stables to see his favorite 
stable hand. That stable hand always told him stories, and this time Ivan came 
to hear stories too, but that is not what he heard. "Tsarevich Ivan!" said the 
stable hand.

"Your mother will soon give birth to a daughter, a sister for you. She will be 
a hideous witch, eat your father and mother and all of the servants, so go and 
ask your father for the best possible horse, as if you were just going for a 
ride, and ride away from here whichever way your eyes point, if you want to be 
spared this misfortune." Tsarevich Ivan ran to his father and spoke to him for 
the first time in his life. The tsar was so happy at this that he didn't even 
ask why he needed a good steed. He immediately ordered the best mount from his 
herds to be saddled for the tsarevich. Tsarevich Ivan mounted and rode 
wherever his eyes took him.

For a long, long time he rode. He came upon two old seamstresses and asked 
that they take him in to live with them. The old women answered, "we would be 
happy to take you in, Tsarevich Ivan, but we have not long to live. When we 
break up this chest of needles and use up this chest of thread, then death 
will come right away!"

Tsarevich Ivan started to cry and rode on. For a long, long time he rode and 
came up to Oak-turner and asked: "Take me in!"

"I would be happy to take you in, Tsarevich Ivan, but I haven't long to live. 
As soon as I tear out all of these oaks by their roots, then it will be my 
death!" The tsarevich cried more than before and rode still further and 
further. He came up to Mountain-turner and started to ask him, but he 
answered: "I would be happy to take you in, Ivan, but I haven't long to live 
myself. You see, I've been put here to twist out mountains. As soon as I 
manage with these last ones, then here is my death!" Tsarevich Ivan broke into 
bitter tears and rode on still further.

For a long, long time he rode. Finally he arrived at the home of Sun's sister. 
She took him in, wined him, dined him, cared for him as if he were her own son. 
The tsarevich lived well, but still from time to time he would get a little 
depressed: he would want to find out what was going on at home. Once in a 
while he would go up on a tall mountain, look at his palace, and see that 
everything had been eaten, only the walls were left! He would sigh and cry!

Once he looked and cried a little and then went back, and Sun's sister asked: 
"Why have you been crying, Tsarevich Ivan?"

He said: "The wind blew in my eyes." Another time it was the same, so Sun's 
sister forbade the wind to blow. The third time Tsarevich Ivan came home 
teary-eyed and there was nothing else to do - he had to tell all, and he asked 
Sun's sister to let him, good lad that he was, visit his homeland.

She wouldn't let him go and yet he begged. Finally his pleas met with success 
and she let him go to visit his homeland and she gave him, for the road, a 
brush, a comb, and two apples of youth: no matter how old a person might be, 
if he eats an apple, he becomes younger in an instant!

When Tsarevich Ivan came up to Mountain-turner, only one mountain was left. He 
took his brush and threw it into an open field. Suddenly, from nowhere, there 
grew out of the ground tall, tall mountains whose peaks pressed against the 
sky. And how many there were, seen and unseen! Mountain-turner was overjoyed 
and merrily started to work.

For a long time or a short time he rode. When Tsarevich Ivan came up to Oak-
turner, only three oak trees remained. He took his comb and threw it into an 
open field. Suddenly, from nowhere, there noisily rose from the ground dense 
oak forests, one tree wider than the next! Oak-turner was overjoyed, was 
thankful to the tsarevich, and went to tear out the age-old oaks. For a long 
time or a short time he rode. When Tsarevich Ivan came up to the old women, he 
gave them each an apple. They ate them and in an instant grew younger; they 
gave him a piece of cloth: whenever you wave the cloth, a whole lake will 
appear!

And so Tsarevich Ivan returned home. His sister ran out, greeted him, and took 
care of him: "Sit down brother," she said. "Play the gush, and I'll go prepare 
dinner." The tsarevich sat down and badly strummed the gush. A mouse crawled 
out of its hole and said to him in a human voice: "Save yourself tsarevich, 
run quickly! Your sister went to sharpen her teeth." Tsarevich Ivan went out 
of the chamber, mounted his horse, and galloped away; and the mouse ran along 
the strings. The gush sounded bad and the sister didn't know that her brother 
had gone. Having sharpened her teeth, she rushed into the chamber, but there 
was not a soul there, only a mouse slipping into its hole. The witch became 
angry, gnashed her teeth, and set out in pursuit.

Tsarevich Ivan heard some noise and looked around. His sister was almost upon 
him. He waved his cloth and there appeared a deep lake. While the witch was 
getting across the lake, Tsarevich Ivan rode far away. She took off even 
faster - she was really close! Oak-turner guessed that the tsarevich was 
escaping from his sister and started tearing out oaks and piling them onto the 
road. He piled up a whole mountain! There was no path for the witch! She 
started clearing the way; she chewed and chewed and barely broke through, but 
Tsarevich Ivan was already far away. She rushed to catch up: she sped and sped, 
only a little more - he can't get away! Mountain-turner saw the witch, 
took hold of the tallest mountain and turned it right onto the road, and on 
that mountain he placed another. While the witch was clambering and climbing, 
Tsarevich Ivan rode and rode and ended up far away.

The witch made it across the mountains and again launched after her brother. 
She glimpsed him and said, "Now you won't get away from me!" She was close, 
she was catching up!

At the same time, Tsarevich Ivan galloped up to the chambers of Sun's sister 
and yelled, "Sun! Sun! Open the window." Sun's sister opened the window and 
Tsarevich Ivan jumped through it along with his horse. The witch started to 
plead that they give her back her brother with his head, but Sun's sister did 
not obey her and did not give him up.

Then the witch said: "Let Tsarevich Ivan go with me to the scales and see who 
outweighs whom! If I outweigh him, then I will get to eat him, if he weighs 
more, then let him kill me!" They went. First Tsarevich Ivan sat on the scales, 
then the witch started to climb on. She had only started to put her first foot 
up when Tsarevich Ivan was thrown up into the air, and with such force that he 
landed right up in the sky and in the chambers of Sun's sister. And the witch-
serpent remained on the ground.

