


There was once an old princess; she had a son and a daughter, both well built, 
both handsome. A wicked witch disliked them; she pondered and pondered as to 
how she could lead them into evil ways and destroy them. In the end she 
conceived a plan. Like a cunning fox she came to their mother and said: "My 
little dove, my dear friend, here is a ring for you; put it on your son's 
finger. With its help he will be healthy and wealthy, but he must never take 
it off, and he must marry only that maiden whom the ring fits." The old woman 
believed her and was overjoyed; before her death she enjoined upon her son 
that he take to wife a woman whom the ring would be found to fit.

Time went by and the little son grew up. He grew up and began to seek a bride; 
he would like one girl, then another, but upon trying the ring he always found 
it to be too big or too small; it did not fit either the one or the other. He 
traveled and traveled through villages and cities, tried the ring on all the 
lovely maidens, but could not find one whom he could take as his betrothed; he 
returned home and was pensive and sad. "Little brother, why are you grieving?" 
his sister asked him. He told her his trouble. "Why is the ring so 
troublesome?" said the sister. "Let me try it." She put it on her finger and 
the ring clasped it, and began to gleam; it fitted her as though made to her 
size.

"Ah, my sister," said the brother, "you have been chosen for me by fate, you 
shall be my wife." "What are you saying, my brother? Think of God, think of 
the sin; one does not marry one's own sister." But her brother did not heed 
her; he danced for joy and ordered that preparations be made for the wedding. 
The sister burst into bitter tears, went out of her room, sat on the threshold, 
and wept and wept. Some old women passed by; she invited them in and offered 
them food and drink. They asked her what her grief was, why she was sad. It 
was of no use to hide it; she told them everything. "Weep not, grieve not," 
said the old women, "but listen to us. Make four little dolls, seat them in 
the four corners; when your brother calls you to your wedding, go; when he 
asks you to come to the bridal chamber, do not hurry. Put your hope in God. 
Farewell!"

The old women left. The brother wed his sister, went to the room, and said: 
"Sister Catherine, come to the featherbed." She answered: "I will come in a 
minute, only let me remove my earrings." And the dolls in the four corners 
cried like cuckoos:

Cuckoo, Prince Danila,
Cuckoo, Govorila,
Cuckoo, he takes his sister,
Cuckoo, for a wife,
Cuckoo, earth open wide,
Cuckoo, sister, fall inside!

The earth began to open, the sister began to fall in. Her brother cried: 
"Sister Catherine, come to the featherbed!" "Just a minute, my brother, let me 
unclasp my girdle." The dolls cuckooed:

Cuckoo, Prince Danila,
Cuckoo, Govorila,
Cuckoo, he takes his sister,
Cuckoo, for a wife,
Cuckoo, earth open wide,
Cuckoo, sister, fall inside!

Only the sister's head was still above ground. The brother called her again: 
"Sister Catherine, come to the featherbed!" "Just a minute, my brother, I must 
remove my slippers." The dolls cuckooed, and she vanished into the earth.

The brother called her, he called her again in a louder voice, but she did not 
come. He ran to her room, banged at the door, and the door broke. He looked 
everywhere, but his sister was gone. Only the dolls were sitting in the 
corners and crying: "Earth, open wide! Sister, fall inside!" He seized an ax, 
cut off their heads, and threw them into the stove.

The sister walked and walked underground and saw a little hut on chicken legs, 
turning round and round. "Little hut, little hut," she said, "stand the old 
way with your back to the woods and your front to me." The little hut stood 
still and the door opened. Inside sat a lovely maiden embroidering a towel 
with silver and gold. She received her guest with kindness, then sighed and 
said: "My little dove, my heart is glad to see you, I will welcome you and 
fondle you while my mother is out. But when she comes back there will be 
trouble for both of us, for she is a witch." The guest was frightened by these 
words, but she had nowhere to go, so she sat with her hostess at the 
embroidery frame; they embroidered the towel and talked together.

After a long time or a short time, when the hostess knew that her mother was 
about to come - for she knew the time - she turned her guest into a needle, 
thrust the needle into a birch broom, and put the broom in a corner. She had 
no sooner done all this than the witch appeared at the door. "My good daughter, 
my comely daughter, I smell a Russian bone!" the witch said. "Madam mother, 
passers-by came in to drink some water." "Why did you not keep them here?" 
"They were old people, my mother, they would not have been to your liking." 
"Henceforth, mind you, invite all into the house, do not let anyone go; I will 
leave now to get some booty." She left; the maidens sat at the frame, 
embroidered the towel, talked and laughed together. The witch came flying 
home; she sniffed about in the house. "My good daughter, my comely daughter, I 
smell a Russian bone!" she said. "Some little old men stopped in to warm their 
hands; I tried to keep them but they did not want to stay." The witch was 
hungry; she chided her daughter, and flew away again. The guest had been 
sitting in the broom. They hastened to finish embroidering the towel; while 
working thus hurriedly they planned how to escape from their trouble and run 
away from the wicked witch.

They had hardly had time to exchange a few whispers, when the witch (talk of 
the devil and he will appear) stood in the doorway, catching them by surprise. 
"My good daughter, my comely daughter, I smell a Russian bone!" she cried. 
"There, my mother, a lovely maiden is awaiting you," said her daughter. The 
maiden looked at the witch and her heart failed her. Before her stood Baba 
Yaga the Bony-legged, her nose hitting the ceiling. "My good daughter, my 
comely daughter, make a good hot fire in the stove," said the witch. They 
brought wood, oak and maple, and made a fire; the flame blazed forth from the 
stove. The witch took a broad shovel and began to urge her guest: "Now, my 
beauty, sit on the shovel." The beauty sat on it. The witch shoved her toward 
the mouth of the stove, but the maiden put one leg into the stove and the 
other on top of it. "You do not know how to sit, maiden. Now sit the right 
way," said the witch. The maiden changed her posture, sat the right way; the 
witch tried to shove her in, but she put one leg into the stove and the other 
under it.

The witch grew angry and pulled her out again. "You are playing tricks, young 
woman!" she said. "Sit quietly, this way - just see how I do it." She plumped 
herself on the shovel and stretched out her legs, and the two maidens quickly 
shoved her into the stove, locked her in, covered her up with logs, plastered 
and tarred the opening, and then ran away, taking the embroidered towel and a 
brush and comb with them. They ran and ran, and looking back beheld the wicked 
witch; she had wrenched herself free, caught sight of them, and was hissing: 
"Hey, hey, hey, are you there?"

What could they do? They threw down the brush and there appeared a marsh 
thickly overgrown with reeds. The witch could not crawl through it, but she 
opened her claws, plucked out a path, and again came close. Where could they 
go? They threw down the comb, and there appeared a dark, thick forest: not 
even a fly could fly through it. The witch sharpened her teeth and set to 
work: each time she clamped her teeth she bit off a tree by its roots. She 
hurled the trees to one side, cleared a path, and again came close - very 
close. The maidens ran and ran till they could run no longer; they had lost 
all their strength. They threw down the gold-embroidered towel, and there 
spread before them a sea, wide and deep, a sea of fire. The witch soared high; 
she wanted to fly across the sea, but fell into the fire and was burned.

The maidens remained alone, little doves without a home; they did not know 
where to go. They sat down to rest. A servant came to them and asked them who 
they were, then reported to his master that in his domain sat not two little 
birds of passage but two marvelous beauties, one exactly like the other - they 
had the same brows, the same eyes. "One of them," said the servant, "must be 
your sister, but which of the two that is, it is impossible to guess." The 
master went to see them and invited them to his home. He saw that his sister 
was there, but which of the two she was he could not guess - his servant had 
told the truth. She was angry and would not tell him herself. What could be 
done?

"This is what can be done, master," said the servant. "I will fill a sheep's 
bladder with blood, you will put it under your arm, and while you speak to 
your guests, I will come near you and strike you with a knife in your side; 
blood will flow and your sister will reveal herself." "Very well !" They did 
what they had planned; the servant struck his master in the side and blood 
gushed forth. The brother fell, the sister rushed to embrace him, and she 
cried and lamented: "My beloved, my dearest!" The brother jumped up, safe and 
sound, embraced his sister, and married her to a good man; and he himself 
married her friend, on whose finger the ring fitted, and all of them lived 
happily forever after.

