


In a certain village there lived a wealthy peasant and his wife. One day the
wife went to the forest for mushrooms, lost her way, and stumbled into a
bear's den. The bear kept her with him, and after some time, a long time or a
short time, she had a son by him. This son was a man down to the waist and a
bear below the waist; his mother called him Ivanko the Bearlet. Years went by,
and when Ivan grew up he wanted to go away with his mother and live with the
peasants in the village; they waited until the bear went to a beehive, made
ready, and ran away. They ran and ran and finally came to their own village.
The peasant saw his wife and was overjoyed - he had given up hope that she
would ever return. Then he beheld her son and asked: "And who is this freak?"
His wife told him all that had happened, how she had lived in the bear's den
and had a son by him and that this son was human to the waist and a bear from
the waist down. "Well, Bearlet," said the peasant, "go to the back yard and
slaughter a sheep; we must make dinner for you." "And which one shall I
slaughter?" "Whichever one stares at you."

Ivanko the Bearlet took a knife, went out to the yard, and called the sheep;
all of them began to stare at him. He forthwith slaughtered them all, skinned
them, and went to ask the peasant where he should store the skins and the meat.
"What's this?" yelled the peasant. "I told you to slaughter one sheep, and you
have slaughtered them all!" "No, father, you told me to slaughter whichever
one stared at me; but when I came out into the yard all of them, without
exception, began to stare at me." "You certainly are a clever fellow. Take the
meat and skins into the barn, and at night guard the door against thieves and
dogs." "Very well, I will guard it." It so happened that on that night a storm
broke and the rain fell in buckets. Ivanko the Bearlet broke the door off the
barn, took it into the bath house, and spent the night there. Thieves took
advantage of the darkness; they found the barn open and without a guard, so
they took whatever they pleased. Next morning the peasant arose, went to see
whether everything was in order, and found that nothing was left: what the
thieves had not taken, the dogs had eaten up. He looked for the guard, found
him in the bath house, and began to chide him even more severely than the
first time. "But, father, it is not my fault," said Ivanko. "You yourself told
me to guard the door, and I did guard it. Here it is; the thieves did not
steal it, nor did the dogs eat it up."

"What can I do with this fool?" thought the peasant to himself. "If this goes
on for a month or two, he will ruin me completely. I wonder how I can get rid
of him." Then he hit upon an idea; the next day he sent Ivanko to the lake and
told him to wind ropes of sand. In that lake dwelt many devils, and the
peasant hoped that they would drag him into the water. Ivanko the Bearlet went
to the lake, sat on the shore, and began to wind ropes of sand. Suddenly a
little devil jumped out of the water and asked: "What are you doing here,
Bearlet?" "Can't you see? I'm winding ropes; I want to thrash the lake and
torment you devils, because you live in our lake but do not pay any rent."
"Wait a while, Bearlet, I'll run and tell my grandfather," said the little
devil, and - flop! - he jumped into the water.

Five minutes later he was out again and said: "Grandfather said that if you
can run faster than I, we'll pay the rent; if not, he told me to drag you down
into the lake." "Aren't you a nimble fellow!" said Ivanko. "But you cannot
hope to run faster than I. Why, I have a grandson who was born only yesterday,
and even he can outrun you. Do you want to race with him?" "What grandson?"
"He is lying there behind a bush," said the Bearlet, and cried to a hare, "Hey,
hare, do not fail me!" The hare darted off into the open field like mad and
in a trice vanished from sight; the devil rushed after him, but it was of no
use - he was half a verst behind.

"Now, if you wish," said Ivanko, "race with me. But on one condition - if you
lag behind, I will kill you." "O no!" said the devil, and once more flopped
into the water.

After a while, he jumped out, carrying his grandfather's iron crutch, and
said: "Grandfather said that if you can throw this crutch higher than I can,
he will pay the rent." "Well, you throw first!" The devil threw the crutch so
high that it was hardly visible; it fell back with a terrible rumble and
thrust half its length into the ground. "Now you throw it," said the devil.
The Bearlet took the crutch in his hand and could not even move it. "Wait a
while," he said, "a cloud is coming near, I shall throw the crutch on it." "O
no, that won't do, grandfather needs his crutch!" said the little devil. He
snatched the crutch and rushed into the water.

After a while, he jumped out again, saying: "Grandfather said that if you can
carry this horse around the lake at least one more time than I can, he will
pay the rent; if not, you will have to go into the lake." "Is that supposed to
be hard? All right, begin!" answered Ivanko. The devil heaved the horse on to
his back and dragged it around the lake; he carried it ten times, till he was
exhausted and sweat streamed down his snout. "Well, now it's my turn," said
Ivanko.

He mounted the horse and began to ride around the lake; he rode so long that
finally the horse collapsed under him. "Well, brother, how was that?" he asked
the little devil. "I must admit," said the devil, "that you carried it more
times than I, and in what a strange fashion! Between your legs! That way I
couldn't have carried it even once! How much rent must we pay?" "Just fill my
hat with gold, and work for a year as my laborer - that's all I want." The
little devil ran to fetch the gold; Ivanko cut the bottom out of his hat and
placed it above a deep pit; the devil kept bringing gold and pouring it into
the hat. He worked at this for a whole day and only by evening was the hat
filled. Ivanko the Bearlet got a cart, loaded it with gold coins, had the
devil drag it home, and said to the peasant: "Now be happy, father! Here is a
laborer for you, and gold too."

