


In a certain kingdom in a certain land there lived one Bukhtan Bukhtanovich,
who had a stove built on pillars in the middle of a field. He lay on the stove
in cockroach milk up to his elbows. A fox came to him and said: "Bukhtan
Bukhtanovich, would you like me to marry you to the tsar's daughter?" "What's
that you're saying, little fox?" "Do you have any money?" "I have one five
kopek piece." "Hand it over!" The fox took the coin, exchanged it for smaller
coins - kopeks, pennies, and halfpennies, went to the tsar, and said: "Tsar,
give me a quart measure to measure Bukhtan Bukhtanovich's money." The tsar
said: "Take one!" The fox took it home, stuck one kopek behind the hoop around
the measure, brought it back to the tsar, and said: "Tsar, a quart measure is
not big enough; give me a peck measure to measure Bukhtan Bukhtanovich's
money." "Take one!" The fox took it home, stuck a kopek behind the hoop of the
measure, and brought it back to the tsar. "Tsar, a peck measure is not big
enough; give me a bushel measure." "Take one!" The Fox took it home, stuck
what remained of his coins behind the hoop, and brought it back to the tsar.
He said: "Have you measured all his money, little fox?" The fox answered: "All
of it. Now, tsar, I have come for a good purpose: give your daughter in
marriage to Bukhtan Bukhtanovich." "Very well; show me the suitor."

The fox ran home. "Bukhtan Bukhtanovich, have you any clothes? Put them on."
He dressed and, accompanied by the fox, went to the tsar. They walked along
the market place and had to cross on a board over a muddy ditch. The fox gave
Bukhtan a push and he fell into the mud. The fox ran to him. "What is the
matter with you, Bukhtan Bukhtanovich?" Saying this, the fox smeared him with
mud all over. "Wait here, Bukhtan Bukhtanovich, I shall run to the tsar." The
fox came to the tsar and said: "Tsar, I was walking with Bukhtan Bukhtanovich
on a board over a ditch - it was a wretched little board; we were not careful
enough and somehow fell into the mud. Bukhtan Bukhtanovich is all dirty and
unfit to come to town; have you some clothes you could lend him?" "Here, take
these." The fox took the clothes and came to Bukhtan Bukhtanovich. "Here,
change your clothes, Bukhtan, and let us go."

They came to the tsar, and at the tsar's palace the table was already set.
Bukhtan did not look at anything except himself: he had never seen such
clothes in his life. The tsar winked to the fox: "Little fox, why does this
Bukhtan Bukhtanovich look only at himself?" "Tsar, I think he is ashamed to be
wearing such clothes; never in his life has he worn such mean garments. Tsar,
give him the garment that you yourself wear on Easter Sunday." And to Bukhtan
the fox whispered: "Don't look at yourself!"

Bukhtan Bukhtanovich stared at a chair - it was a gilded one. The tsar again
whispered to the fox: "Little fox, why does Bukhtan Bukhtanovich look only at
that chair?" "Tsar, in his house such chairs stand only in the bathhouse." The
tsar flung the chair out of the room. The fox whispered to Bukhtan: "Do not
look at one thing; look here a bit and there a bit." They began to talk about
the purpose of their visit, the match. And then they celebrated the wedding -
does a wedding take long in a tsar's palace? There no beer need be brewed, no
wine distilled - everything is ready. Three ships were loaded for Bukhtan
Bukhtanovich and they traveled homeward. Bukhtan Bukhtanovich and his wife
were on one of the ships, and the fox ran along the shore. Bukhtan saw his
stove and cried: "Little fox, little fox, there is my stove." "Be quiet,
Bukhtan Bukhtanovich, that stove is a disgrace."

Bukhtan Bukhtanovich sailed on, and the fox ran ahead of him on the shore. He
came to a hill and climbed it. On the hill stood a huge stone house, and
around it was an enormous kingdom. The fox went into the house and at first
saw no one; then he ran into a chamber, and there in the best bed lay Dragon,
Son of the Dragon, stretching himself. Raven, Son of the Raven, was perched on
the chimney, and Cat, Son of the Cat, sat on a throne. The fox said: "Why are
you sitting here? The tsar is coming with fire and the tsarina with lightning,
they will scorch and burn you." "Little fox, whither shall we go?" "Cat, Son
of the Cat, go into the barrel." And the fox sealed him up in the barrel.
"Raven, Son of the Raven, go into the mortar!" And the fox sealed him up in
the mortar; then he wrapped Dragon, Son of the Dragon, in straw and took him
out into the street.

The ships arrived. The fox ordered all the beasts to be thrown into the water;
the Cossacks threw them in at once. Bukhtan Bukhtanovich moved all his
possessions into that house; there he lived happily and prospered, ruled and
governed, and there he ended his life.

