


There once lived a poor peasant man who no matter how much he toiled, he still 
had nothing! "Oh," he thought to himself, "my lot is so bitter! In spite of 
breaking my back every day working I'll probably die of starvation. My neighbor 
has spent his entire life doing nothing, and what of it? He prospers. Money just 
floats into his pocket. It's clear I haven't found favor with God. I'm going to 
pray from morning till evening. Perhaps the Lord will have mercy on me." He 
prayed to God. He went entire days without eating while praying the whole time.

On a bright Easter holiday, the people pressed into the church for the morning 
service. The poor man thought, "Soon all the people will break their fast, but I 
don't even have a crust of bread with which to break my fast! At least I'll go 
bring in some water. I'll have that later instead of soup."

Grabbing his pail, he went to the well. As soon as he dropped it into the water, 
he caught a huge pike. The peasant was overjoyed, "Happy holiday to me! I'll make 
fish soup and eat to my heart's content." 

But the pike spoke to him in a human voice, "Let me go free, good man, and I will 
make you happy. Whatever you desire, you will receive! You only need to say, 'By 
the pike's command and according to God's will,' name whatever you desire and in 
that instant it will appear!" The impoverished man threw the pike back into the 
well. Once inside his hut, he sat down at the table and said, "By the pike's 
command and according to God's will, let the table be set and lunch prepared!"

Suddenly, out of nowhere, all kinds of food and drink appeared on the table. He 
would have been proud to host the Tsar! The impoverished man crossed himself, 
"Glory to Thee, Lord! I have something with which to break the fast." 

He returned to church for the morning and noon services. Once at home he broke 
his fast with food and drink. Afterward he went out of his gate and sat on a 
bench.

At that time the princess decided to stroll through the streets. She walked with 
her nannies and nurses to give alms to the poor for the Easter holiday. She gave 
to all, but forgot this peasant-man. And so he said to himself, "By the pike's 
command and according to God's will, may the princess conceive and give birth to 
a son!" According to his word the princess conceived in that very minute and 
within nine months gave birth to a son. 

The tsar questioned her: "Confess!" he said, "With whom did you commit this sin?"
In response the princess cried and swore by everything that she hadn't sinned with 
anyone. "I do not know why the Lord has punished me!" No matter how much the tsar 
probed, it was to no avail. 
 
In the meantime the boy grew not by days, but by hours. By the time he was a week 
old he could already speak. The tsar summoned the boyars and councilmen from all 
over the kingdom. He asked the boy if he recognized any of them as his father. 
But the boy was silent. He didn't call any of them "father." The tsar ordered the 
nannies and nurses to carry the child through all the streets and to each house. 
They searched the streets and each house, but he remained silent. They finally 
came to the poor peasant's little hut. As soon as the boy saw the peasant, he 
stretched out his hands to him and yelled "Papa, papa!" 

They gave this information to the sovereign and brought the peasant to the palace. 
The tsar interrogated him, "Confess by your clean and fair conscience! Is this 
your child?" 

"No, it is God's!"

This made the tsar so angry that he immediately married the princess to the 
peasant. After the wedding he ordered that they and the child be placed in a 
large barrel and then had it slathered with tar and dropped into the open sea. 

The barrel floated on the sea. Fierce winds pushed it to a distant shore. 
Eventually, the peasant no longer heard the water slosh beneath them and so said, 
"By the pike's command and according to God's will, release us from this barrel 
on dry ground!"

The barrel broke apart. They crawled out onto the earth and aimlessly wandered. 
They walked and walked, and walked and walked with nothing to eat or drink. The 
princess was so emaciated that she could barely move her feet further. 

"Well," asked the peasant, "now do you know what thirst and hunger really are?" 

"I know now!" answered the princess. 

"This is exactly how I suffered, but you didn't give me anything, not even on 
Easter!" Then the peasant said, "By the pike's command and according to God's 
will, let there be an exquisite palace here, better than any other on the face 
of the earth, complete with gardens, ponds, and every needed structure!" 
 
As soon as the words left his lips an exquisite palace appeared. Devoted servants 
ran out of the palace, lifted the peasant, the princess and her son in their arms 
and carried them to an alabaster chamber where they seated them at an oak table 
with a woven tablecloth. In every chamber everything was marvelously arranged and 
decorated. On the table, all was prepared: wine, sweets, and main dishes. After 
the peasant and the princess drank, ate and were rested, they went for a walk in 
the garden.

"Everything here is wonderful," said the princess, "only it's too bad there 
aren't any waterfowl on our ponds." 

"Wait a moment and we'll also have waterfowl!" answered the peasant. Right away 
he uttered the words, "By the pike's command and according to God's will may 
there swim on the pond twelve ducks and the thirteenth a drake - each fowl with 
one golden feather and one silver feather. And the drake should have a jeweled 
tuft on the crown of his head!" In an instant there were twelve ducks and one 
drake floating on the water. Each had one gold feather and one silver feather. 
The drake had a jeweled tuft.
 
So the princess and her husband lived without sorrow or tears while their son 
grew and grew. He grew to be large and strong. When he realized his great 
strength he asked his father and mother to allow him to travel the wide world to 
find a bride for himself. They let him go: "Go forth with God, dear son!" He 
harnessed his noble steed, mounted and rode off down the path. 

By chance he met an old woman. "Hello, Russian prince! If you please, where are 
you going?" 

"I'm riding, grandmother, to find a bride. But I don't exactly know where to look 
for her." 

"Stop a moment. I will tell you, my child! Ride beyond the sea to the far-away 
kingdom. There lives a princess who possesses such beauty that you could ride 
through the whole earth and not find anyone better!" 

The good youth thanked the old woman. He rode to the harbor where he hired a boat 
to sail to that far-away kingdom.
 
Perhaps he sailed for a long time or perhaps a short time, the tale is told 
quickly, but the actual deed takes time. At last he arrived in that distant 
kingdom where he appeared before the local king and asked for his daughter's 
hand in marriage. The king said to him, "You are not the only one who is asking 
for my daughter's hand. There is another suitor here, a powerful and strong hero. 
If I were to reject him, he would destroy my whole kingdom." 

"Well if you reject me, I will also destroy your kingdom!" 

"Seriously? Wouldn't it be better to test your strength against his? I will give 
my daughter in marriage to the victor." 

"Agreed! Call together all the tsars and their sons and all the kings and their 
sons to watch this honorable battle and to celebrate the wedding." 

That very hour couriers were sent in all directions. Less than a year later the 
tsars and their sons and the kings and their sons gathered from all the 
surrounding lands. Even that tsar who put his own daughter into the sea in a 
tarred barrel was there. 

On the appointed day the two heroes engaged in mortal combat. They fought and 
fought. From the strength of their blows the earth groaned, forests bowed, and 
rivers changed their course. Eventually the son of the princess conquered by 
knocking off his opponent's ferocious head.

At this point the king's boyars ran to the goodly youth, lifted him in their arms 
and carried him into the palace. The next day he married the king's daughter. As 
they feasted and celebrated the marriage, the youth invited all the tsars and 
their sons and the kings and their sons to be guests at his father and mother's 
palace. They arose as one, outfitted vessels and sailed off on the sea. 

The princess and her husband hospitably welcomed the guests, and the wedding 
celebration continued with feasts and festivities. The tsars and the tsars' sons 
and the kings and the kings' sons were awe-struck by the palace and its gardens. 
Such wealth had never before been seen. The ducks and the drake were the grandest 
of all. Just one duck was worth as much as half a kingdom! Eventually the 
celebrating came to an end and the guests prepared to depart for home. They had 
almost reached the harbor when speed couriers approached them. "Please stop. Our 
master asks that you return. He wants to hold a private council with you."

The tsars and their sons and the kings and their sons returned. The master 
questioned them, "Is this how I'm repaid for my generosity? One of my ducks has 
gone missing! No one else could have taken it but one of you!" 

"What is this slander?" asked the tsars and their sons and the kings and their 
sons. "This is a foul business! Search each one of us right now! If you find the 
duck among somebody's possessions, do with him as you please. But if you don't 
find it, then we will have your head!" 

"Okay, agreed!" said the master. 

He walked along the row and searched each of them. As soon as he came to the 
princess'svfather, he quietly muttered, "By the pike's command, and according to 
God's will let the duck be found tied under the hem of this tsar's cloak!" He 
lifted the edge of the tsar's cloak, and there under the hem was a duck with one 
gold feather and one silver feather.

All the other tsars and tsars' sons and kings and kings' sons laughed loudly, 
"Ha, ha, ha! Will you look at that! Even tsars have begun to steal!" 

The princess's father swore by all that is holy that he had not even thought to 
steal. He had no idea how he ended up with that duck.

"Confess! You're the one who had the duck. It appears you alone are guilty." 

At this point the princess came out and threw herself into her father's arms. 
She revealed that she was his daughter whom he had given to the peasant to wife 
and then placed in a tarred barrel.

"Father! You didn't believe my words then, but now you must realize it is 
possible to be guilty without fault." She told him all that had happened in her 
life to that point. Then they all lived together, prospered and avoided evil.

