



There once was a peasant with three sons. The eldest left to find work as a
laborer. In the city a merchant employed him, but the merchant was extremely
harsh.

He said one thing and one thing only: "as soon as the rooster crows, get up,
and get to work." It was all so difficult and hard to bear for the young man. 
He lasted one week and returned home.

The middle son left home. He lasted one week with the same merchant, but
couldn't continue and quit.

"Father," said the youngest son, "if you will allow it, I'll go and work as a
laborer for the merchant."  

"What is there for such a fool as you? If you knew what was good for you, you
would just stay on the stove! Better men than you have gone, and they have
returned with nothing to show for it."

"Well, whatever you say, I'm still going!"

As soon as he said this, he went to the merchant.

"Hello, merchant!"

"Hello, good fellow! What do you have to say?"

"Hire me as a laborer."

"As you wish. Only understand that here, brother, as soon the rooster crows,
you will go to work and work through the whole day."

"It's well known that when you take a job you should also receive payment."

"And what do you expect for your wages?"

"What should my wage be? I'll work for a year for the opportunity to give you
a little flick and to your wife just a pinch. That's all I need."

"Fine, good man!" replied the master. Meanwhile he thought to himself, "what
a fortunate turn of events to hire someone for practically nothing!"

In the evening, the laborer decided to make things as easy as possible. He
caught the rooster, folded its head under its wing and then went to sleep. 
Midnight had long since passed, the morning approached with the tasks of the
day. It was time to wake the laborer, but the rooster never crowed! The sun
rose into the sky and the laborer woke independently.

"Well, master, let's eat breakfast. It's time to go to work."

They had breakfast and worked through the day to evening. At twilight he
again caught the rooster, folded its head under its wing and flopped into
bed to wait until morning. On the third night, he did the same.

The merchant was very surprised. He wondered what was wrong with his rooster. 
It completely stopped crowing!

"I'll go," he thought, "into the countryside for a new rooster." The merchant
went to look for a rooster and took the laborer with him.

As they walked along the road, they met four peasants who were leading a bull.
And what a bull it was - huge and feisty! They were barely able to hold onto
its ropes!

"Where are you going, brothers?" asked the laborer.

"We're taking this bull to the slaughter house."

"Oh, really! Four of you are leading the bull but there's not even enough
work here for one man!" He walked up to the bull and killed it by flicking
its forehead. Then, he pinched the hide and pulled it completely off!

As soon as the merchant saw what kind of flicks and pinches the laborer gave,
he began to deeply despair. He completely forgot about the rooster and
returned home to counsel with his wife. How would they avoid future
misfortune?

"Oh, I know," said the merchant's wife, "let's send the laborer into the
forest late at night. We'll say that a cow didn't come in from pasture. Let
the wild animals devour him!"

"Okay!"

They waited until after dinner in the evening. The merchant's wife went out
into the yard, stood on the porch, and then came into the hut and said to
the laborer, "Why didn't you drive the cows into the barn? One of them, a
hornless cow, is missing!"

"Well, it seemed as though they were all there...."  

"Now then, that's enough! Go quickly into the forest and search until you
find it."

The laborer dressed, grabbed a club and sauntered into the thick forest. As
much as he wandered around in the wood, he didn't see any cow. He searched
and searched until he found what he thought was the cow, but it was actually
a bear in its den.

"Finally! What have you gotten yourself into, you damned thing! I've been
looking for you all night."

The laborer drove the bear with his club. The beast tried to run away, but 
the laborer grabbed it by the neck. He dragged it all the way home. He
yelled, "Open the gates; let the animal in!"

He forced the bear into the barn and locked it in together with the cows. 
The bear immediately began to thrash and kill the cows. During the night,
every single cow was thus dispatched.

In the morning, the laborer said to the merchant and his wife, "I found the
cow that was lost."

"Let's go, wife. Let's see the lost cow he found in the forest."

They went to the barn, opened the door and found that all of the cows were
dead and a bear sitting in the corner.

"What have you done, you fool?"

"Wait a minute, I'll take care of him!" said the laborer. "I'll kill him for
this!"

He rushed into the barn and gave the bear a flick, killing him instantly!

"This is a bad affair," thought the merchant, "wild beasts are nothing to him. 
Perhaps a devil will serve us better!" 

"Ride," he said to the laborer, "to the devil's mill and do me a great service. 
Demand my dues from the unclean ones. They took out a loan from me and are not
making any payments!"
"As you wish," answered the laborer. "Why not go ahead and do this trifling
task?"

He harnessed the cart to the horse and drove to the devil's mill. After
arriving, he sat on the bank and started to twist a rope. Suddenly, out from
the water jumped a devil.

"Laborer, what are you doing?"

"I suppose you can see for yourself that I'm twisting a rope."

"What do you need a rope for?"

"I want to drag you devils to the sun to dry you out. After all, you wretches
are completely soaked!"

"What's this, laborer? We haven't done anything to you."

"Well why haven't you been paying your bills to my master? You must have
borrowed a bit over your heads!"

"Just wait here a minute. I will go and ask my elder," said the devil and
dove into the water.

The laborer grabbed a shovel, dug a deep hole and covered it with brush. He
cut a hole in his cap and placed it in the middle of the brush. 

The devil emerged and said to the laborer, "The elder wants to know how you
are going to drag us out, seeing as our pools are bottomless?"

"No big deal! I have just the rope I need for that. You can measure it. 
You'll never reach the end of the rope."

"Well then, let's see!"

The laborer tied the two ends of the rope together and gave it to the devil. 
The devil measured and measured and measured again, but never reached the end
of the rope. 

"Uh, do we have a large amount to pay?"

"Yes, my cap is on the ground over there, go and fill it with silver. That
will be just the right amount."

The devil dove into the water and told all of this to his elder. The elder
was sorry to part with the money, but there was nothing to be done, it was
time to pay up.

Thus the laborer collected an entire cart's worth of silver and brought it
to the merchant.

The merchant said, "Now there's a tragedy! Even the devil couldn't take him!"

The merchant and his wife planned to run away from home. The wife baked pies
and loaves of bread. She put them into two sacks and lay down for a nap so as
to be well rested for the nighttime escape from the laborer.

As she rested, the laborer dumped the pies and loaves of bread out of the sacks. 
In one bag he put a millstone and climbed into the other himself. He hardly
breathed he was sitting so still. At night, the merchant awoke his wife, they
grabbed their bags and left the yard.

From the bag the laborer yelled, "Hey, master and mistress! Wait up! Take me
with you." 

"He found out, the infernal boy! He's chasing after us!" the merchant said to
his wife.

They ran even more quickly, as if their lives depended on it! The merchant saw
a lake. Stopping, he threw the bag off his shoulder.

"Let's rest," he said, "just for a little while." 

Then the laborer called out, "Throw that bag more carefully, master! You're
breaking my back!"

"Argh, man. You're here!"  

"Yes, I'm here!"

And so they decided to spend the night by the lake where they all lay close
together.

"Mind this, dear," said the merchant, "as soon as the laborer falls asleep,
we'll throw him into the water."

But the laborer couldn't sleep. He tossed and turned and rolled from side to
side. The merchant and his wife tried to stay awake but they both fell asleep.

The laborer immediately took off his own coat and cap, put them on the
merchant's wife, and donned her coat. He then awoke his master. "Get up, let's
throw the laborer into the lake!"

The merchant arose; they then grabbed the merchant's sleeping wife and threw
her into the water.

"Master, what did you do?" cried the laborer. "Why did you drown your wife?"

There was nothing the merchant could do but return home with the laborer. The
laborer worked a whole year for him. At the end of the year, as previously
agreed, the laborer flicked the merchant on the forehead, which nearly killed
him.

The laborer took his inheritance and prospered, increasing his goods, and
avoiding evil.

