


Once upon a time, Kuzenka lived all by himself in a dark forest. He had a meager
little shack, one rooster and five chickens.

Fox began to frequent Kuzenka's place. As Kuzenka would just be leaving his house
to hunt, Fox would arrive. She ran in, slaughtered one chicken, fried it and ate it. On
Kuzenka's return, he looked around. He was short one chicken! He thought to
himself, "Probably a vulture dragged it off."

The next day he went out again to hunt. He met Fox along the way and she asked,
"Kuzenka, where are you going?"

"Out to hunt, Fox."

"Okay, goodbye." Immediately Fox ran to Kuzenka's hut, slaughtered a chicken, fried
it and ate it.

Kuzenka arrived home and noticed another chicken was missing! He suddenly had a
hunch: "perhaps Fox is eating my chickens?"

And so on the third day, he sealed up the windows and doors of his hut and then
went out to work. From out of nowhere Fox appeared and asked, "Where are you
going, Kuzenka?"

"Out to hunt, Fox."

Fox immediately ran to Kuzenka's house who secretly followed her. Fox circled the
hut and noticed the windows and doors were sealed shut. How could she get into
the hut? She started to let herself down the chimney. It was there that Kuzenka
caught Fox.

"Ah-ha," he said, "see the thief has come to visit. Hold still, my dear little lady. I'm not
going to let you out of my hands alive!"

Fox implored Kuzenka, "Don't kill me, then I will make you into Kozma Quickrich!
Just fry one of your chickens in oil for me - nice and greasy."

Kuzenka agreed to do as Fox suggested. Fox, after having eaten such a rich lunch,
ran to the royal lands to wallow in the grass.
Along came Wolf and said, "Hey you, damned fox! Where have you been glutting
yourself?"

"Ah, beloved Wolfy-pup. Naturally, I was at a feast with the tsar. They couldn't
possibly have overlooked inviting you, could they? Why, there were so many
different animals there: weasels and sables by the thousands."

Wolf asked, "Little Fox, do you think you could get me an invitation to lunch with the
tsar as well?"

Fox promised she could. She told Wolf to gather grey wolves, forty by forty in
number to bring with him. Wolf rounded up the grey wolves, forty by forty in
number, whereupon Fox led them all to the tsar. As soon as they arrived, she
entered the alabaster chambers and bowed to the tsar, pronouncing the grey wolves
forty by forty in number as a gift from Kozma Quickrich. The tsar rejoiced
exceedingly and ordered all the wolves to be driven and securely locked in a pen.

Then Fox ran off to Kuzenka and asked him to fry yet another chicken for her. Fox
ate the huge meal and returned to the royal lands to wallow in the grass.

Along came Bear. He saw Fox and said, "Hey, look at you, damned bushy-tail. You're
bursting at the seams!"

She answered, "I was at the tsar's as a guest. There were so many different types of
animals there: martens, sables, a multitude! Actually some remain - the wolves are
still feasting. You don't know my dear how stuffed they are getting! At this point,
they're just gorging themselves."

Bear then asked, "Dear Fox, do you think that you might take me to the tsar's lunch,
too?"

Fox agreed and told him to gather other black bears, forty by forty in number,
because, "for just one of you the tsar would not want to trouble himself."

The bear gathered black bears, forty by forty in number. Fox led them to the tsar.
She presented all the black bears to the tsar from Kozma Quickrich. The tsar was
pleased and ordered them to be corralled and locked up tight.

Then Fox went to Kuzenka and told him to fry up the last chicken and the rooster.
Kuzenka didn't mind complying, so he fried up the last chicken and the rooster for
Fox. Fox ate it all up to her complete satisfaction and returned to the royal lands to
wallow in the green grass.

Along came Sable with Marten and asked, "Hey, you cunning fox, where did you feast
so fully?"

"Oh, sable and marten! I was at the tsar's for a singular honor. Right now he is
having a feast for all kinds of animals. I completely stuffed myself, I ate so many rich
things. And still there are so many animals at the lunch, a multitude! You are the
only ones not there. You know the wolves, they are so rapacious. It's as if they never
tasted such richness in their whole lives. But even now they are wolfing down food
at the tsar's. And about that clumsy Bear I do not need to say anything. He has been
eating so quickly that he is scarcely breathing!"

Sable and Marten implored the fox, "Dear one, wouldn't you take us to the tsar?
Even if we could just watch."

Fox agreed and told them to round up more sables and martens, forty by forty in
number. They did so. Fox led them to the palace and subsequently presented to the
tsar the sables and martens, forty by forty in number from Kozma Quickrich. The
tsar could not comprehend the wealth of Kozma Quickrich, and joyfully accepted the
gift. He then ordered all the animals to be slaughtered and skinned.

The next day Fox again ran to the tsar and said, "Your royal highness! Kozma
Quickrich asked me to bow before you and requests a measuring bin. He needs to
measure his silver coins. Currently, all his own bins are full of gold." The tsar gave
Fox a measuring bin without any objections. She ran to Kuzenka and told him to fill
the bin with sand so as to whiten the sides of the bin. As soon as it was whitened,
she stuffed a few small coins into some of the cracks and brought it back to the tsar.

After arriving, Fox sought the tsar's beautiful daughter in marriage on behalf of
Kozma Quickrich. The tsar didn't object and asked that Kozma prepare himself and
make his appearance. Kuzenka rode off to the tsar's, meanwhile, Fox ran ahead to
enlist workers to weaken a bridge along the way. Kuzenka had only just rode onto
the bridge when it collapsed into the water, taking him with it.

Fox yelled, "Oh no! We've lost Kozma Quickrich!" Upon hearing this, the tsar
immediately sent people to rescue Kozma. After they rescued him, they re-garbed
him in regal attire and led him to the tsar.

Kozma Quickrich married the tsar's daughter. After living with the tsar for a week
and then two, the tsar said, "Well, beloved son-in-law, let's go now to your house for
a visit."

There was nothing Kozma could do but make ready to go. They harnessed the
horses and went. However, Fox left ahead of them. She ran and ran until she saw
shepherds tending a flock of sheep. She asked them, "Shepherds! Shepherds! Whose
flock are you tending?"

The shepherds answered, "The flock of the Tsar Zmiulan."

Fox reasoned with them, "Tell everyone this is the flock of Kozma Quickrich, not
Tsar Zmiulan. Tsar Fire and Tsaritsa Lightning are coming and if you don't tell them
that this is the flock of Kozma Quickrich, they will burn all of you and your sheep to
a crisp."
The shepherds could see that they would be better off to heed this advice. So they
promised to inform anyone who asked about Kozma Quickrich as the fox taught
them.

Fox continued on her way until she saw herdsmen tending swine. She asked them,
"Herdsmen! Herdsmen! Whose herd is this?"

"That of tsar Zmiulan."

"Say that this is the herd of Kozma Quickrich. Otherwise, when Tsar Fire and
Tsaritsa Lightning come along, they will roast and toast all of you for mentioning
tsar Zmiulan."

The herdsmen agreed.

Fox again ran ahead. She ran until she came across a herd of tsar Zmiulan's cattle
and, later, across tsar Zmiulan's herd of horses. Fox ordered the herdsmen to say
that these herds belonged to Kozma Quickrich and that they should say nothing
about tsar Zmiulan.

Fox eventually met up with a herd of camels as well. "Herdsmen! Herdsmen! Whose
herd are you keeping?"

"That of the tsar Zmiulan."

Fox strictly forbade them from saying anything about tsar Zmiulan. She ordered
them instead to say that this was Kozma Quickrich's herd, otherwise, Tsar Fire and
Tsaritsa Lightning would burn the whole herd to a crisp!
Fox again ran ahead. Arriving at the kingdom of tsar Zmiulan, she went straight to
the chambers with alabaster walls.

"What news do you bring, Fox?"

"Well, tsar Zmiulan, right now it is time for you to hide and quickly! The terrible
Tsar Fire and his wife, Lightning, are coming. They are burning everything to a crisp.
Your herds and herdsmen have been burned up. First it was your sheep, then your
swine, and now your cows and horses. I did not wait, but came to tell you
immediately and almost suffocated from the smoke!"

Tsar Zmiulan grieved. "Oh, Fox, where can I possibly go to hide?"

"There is an old oak tree in your garden, the inside is all hollowed out. Run into the
hollow and preserve yourself until they have gone by."

Tsar Zmiulan quickly made ready according to what was said and what was written
and did as Fox told him.

All the while Kozma Quickrich was on his way, driving with his wife and father-in-
law. They came to the flock of sheep. It was the young princess who asked,
"Herdsmen, herdsmen! Whose flock are you tending?"

"That of Kozma Quickrich," answered the herdsmen.

The tsar was happy to hear that, "Well, dear son-in-law, you have a lot of sheep."

They went further and came to the herd of swine. "Herdsmen, herdsmen," asked the
young princess, "whose herd are you tending?"

"That of Kozma Quickrich."

"Well, dear son-in-law, you have a lot of swine."

They went further and further still: here was tended a herd of cows, and there a
herd of horses, and in another spot a herd of camels. They asked the herdsmen,
"Whose herd do you tend?"

They all casually answered the same, "That of Kozma Quickrich."
And so eventually they arrived at the tsar's palace. Fox met them and led them into
the alabaster halls. The tsar came in and marvelled: everything was so beautifully
decorated! Let us feast, eat, drink and be merry!

They lived there a day and then a week until Fox said, "Well, Kuzenka, stop the
party. There is business to attend to. Take your father-in-law into the green garden.
In that garden stands an old oak tree. In that oak sits tsar Zmiulan. He has been
hiding from you. Shoot that tree into little pieces!"

So, Kuzenka, according to what was said and what was written, went with his father-
in-law into the green garden. They fired right into that oak tree and killed the tsar
Zmiulan. Kozma Quickrich then reigned in that kingdom and lived well with the
princess and prospered. They still live there, eating their bread. They rewarded Fox
with chickens every day, and she stayed with them right up until she had finished off
every last one.

